The i386-specific portion of the OpenBSD 2.0 release is found in the
"i386" subdirectory of the distribution.  That subdirectory is laid
out as follows:

.../2.0/i386/
		INSTALL		Installation notes; this file.

		bins/		i386 binary distribution sets;
				see below.

		floppies/	i386 boot and installation
				floppies; see below.

		utils/		Miscellaneous i386
				installation utilities; see
				installation section, below.

There are four i386 floppy images to be found in the "i386/floppy"
subdirectory of the OpenBSD 2.0 distribution.  Two of them are bootable
kernel-copy floppies, one is an installation floppy, and one is an
upgrade floppy.  They are all described in more detail below.  There
are gzipped versions of each available, for easier downloading.  (The
gzipped versions have the ".gz" extension added to their names.)

Bootable Kernel-copy floppies:

	These disks contain file systems, are bootable, and have
	enough utilities on board to copy a new kernel to your hard
	disk once you have it partitioned for OpenBSD.  They make
	upgrading to a new kernel easy, because all you have to do is
	get a new kernel-copy floppy with a new kernel, boot from it,
	and confirm that you want to have the kernel copied to your
	disk.

        Please note that because of space considerations the kernel
        copy floppies no longer contain drivers that are not needed
        during installation -- in particular, no drivers needed to run
        the X Window System are available in these kernels. It is
        recommended that you configure a custom kernel following
        installation.

        For those that cannot configure a custom kernel, a "generic"
        kernel image, named "bsd.gz" has been placed in the binaries
	directory.  It is strongly encouraged that you build a custom
        kernel for your installation rather than use a prebuilt generic
        kernel.

Installation floppy:

	This disk contains the software necessary to prepare your hard
	drive for OpenBSD and install the OpenBSD distribution. It is
	not bootable, and must be used in conjunction with one of the
	kernel-copy floppies.  This floppy is named "inst-20.fs".

Upgrade floppy:

	This disk contains the software to be used in upgrading the
	system from a previous version of OpenBSD.  It is not bootable,
	and must be used in conjunction with one of the kernel-copy
	floppies.  This floppy is named "upgr20.fs"

The OpenBSD/i386 binary distribution sets contain the binaries which
comprise the OpenBSD 2.0 release for the i386.  There are seven binary
distribution sets.  The binary distribution sets can be found in
subdirectories of the "i386/bins" subdirectory of the OpenBSD 2.0
distribution tree, and are as follows:

	base20	The OpenBSD/i386 2.0 base binary distribution.  You
		MUST install this distribution set.  It contains the
		base OpenBSD utilities that are necessary for the
		system to run and be minimally functional.  It
		includes shared library support, and excludes
		everything described below.
		[ 7.5M gzipped, 19.5M uncompressed ]

	comp20	The OpenBSD/i386 Compiler tools.  All of the tools
		relating to C, C++, and FORTRAN (yes, there are two!).
		This set includes the system include files
		(/usr/include), the linker, the compiler tool chain,
		and the various system libraries (except the shared
		libraries, which are included as part of the base
		set).  This set also includes the manual pages for all
		of the utilities it contains, as well as the system
		call and library manual pages.
		[ 4.9M gzipped, 15.0M uncompressed ]

	etc20	This distribution set contains the system
		configuration files that reside in /etc and in several
		other places.  This set MUST be installed if you are
		installing the system from scratch, but should NOT be
		used if you are upgrading.  (If you are upgrading,
		it's recommended that you get a copy of this set and
		CAREFULLY upgrade your configuration files by hand.)
		[ 63K gzipped, 338K uncompressed ]

	games20	This set includes the games and their manual pages.
		[ 2.8M gzipped, 6.9M uncompressed ]

	man20	This set includes all of the manual pages for the
		binaries and other software contained in the base set.
		Note that it does not include any of the manual pages
		that are included in the other sets.
		[ 0.8M gzipped, 3.4M uncompressed ]

	misc20	This set includes the system dictionaries (which are
		rather large), the typesettable document set, and
		man pages for other architectures which happen to be
		installed from the source tree by default.
		[ 1.9M gzipped, 6.6M uncompressed ]

	text20	This set includes OpenBSD's text processing tools,
		including groff, all related programs, and their
		manual pages.
		[ 0.8M gzipped, 2.9M uncompressed ]

The i386 binary distribution sets are distributed in the same form as
the source distribution sets; catted together, the members of a set
form a gzipped tar file.  Each i386 binary distribution set also has
its own "CKSUMS" file, just as the source distribution sets do.

The instructions given for extracting the source sets work equally
well for the binary sets, but it is worth noting that if you use that
method, the files are extracted "below" the current directory.  That
is, if you want to extract the binaries "into" your system, i.e.
replace the system binaries with them, you have to run the "tar xfp"
from /.  Also note that if you upgrade or install this way, those
programs that you are using at the time will NOT be replaced.  If you
follow the normal installation or upgrade procedures, this will be
taken care of for you.
