$OpenBSD: README,v 1.1 1996/09/07 23:43:01 downsj Exp $

README for version 4.4 of Vim: Vi IMproved.

Vim is an almost compatible version of the UNIX editor vi.  Only the "Q"
command is missing.  Many new features have been added: multi level undo,
command line history, filename completion, block operations, etc.  There is
also a Graphical User Interface (GUI) available.  See doc/vim_diff.doc.

This editor is very useful for editing programs and other plain ASCII files.
All commands are given with normal keyboard characters, so those who can type
with ten fingers can work very fast.  Additionally function keys can be
defined by the user.

Vim currently runs under Amiga DOS, MS-DOS, Windows NT, Windows 95, Atari
MiNT, OS/2 and almost all flavours of UNIX.  There are some things included
for the Archimedes, but it does not work yet.  There are people working on a
VMS and a Mac port.  Porting to other systems should not be very difficult.

Documentation:
The best is to use ":help" in Vim.  If you don't have an executable (yet),
read doc/vim_help.txt.  It contains pointers to the other documentation files.

"tutor/readme" is a one hour training course for beginners.

Copying:
Vim is Charityware.  You can use and copy it as much as you like, but you are
encouraged to make a donation to orphans in Uganda.  Please read the file
"doc/vim_kcc.txt" for details.

If you include Vim on a CD-ROM, I would like to receive a copy.  Just so I
know which Vim distributions exists in the world (and to show off to my
friends :-)).

If you distribute a modified version of Vim, you must send me a copy,
including the source code.  Or make it available to me through ftp; let me
know where I can find it.  If the number of changes is small (e.g., a modified
Makefile) e-mailing me the diffs will do.  I preserve the right to include
any changes in the official version of Vim.  It is not allowed to distribute
a modified version of Vim without making the source code available to me.
It is not allowed to remove these restrictions from the distribution of the
Vim sources.

Compiling:
All stuff for compiling Vim is in the "src" directory.  See src/INSTALL for
instructions.


The latest news about Vim can be found in the Vim home page:
	<URL:http://www.math.fu-berlin.de/~guckes/vim/>

If you have problems, have a look at the Vim FAQ:
	<URL:http://www.grafnetix.com/~laurent/vim/>

Please send bug reports to:
	Bram Moolenaar <mool@oce.nl>

There are three mailing lists for Vim:

	vim@prz.tu-berlin.de		about using Vim
	vimdev@prz.tu-berlin.de		about developing Vim
	vimannounce@prz.tu-berlin.de	announcements

If you want to join send a message to
	<majordomo@prz.tu-berlin.de>
and put "info" in the body.  Then Majordomo will give you a little help.
You must join before you are allowed to send messages to the lists (otherwise
Majordomo will eat your messages).

Send any other comments, patches, pizza and suggestions to:

	Bram Moolenaar		E-mail:	mool@oce.nl
	Clematisstraat 30
	5925 BE  Venlo		Fax: +31 77 3595473
	The Netherlands		Tel: +31 77 3872340
