Apache 1.3.2 Released
=====================

The Apache Group is pleased to announce the release of version
1.3.2 of the Apache HTTP server.  

The changes in this release consist of Unix portability fixes,
DoS issues, and assorted other minor features or fixes.  Users
should review the CHANGES file and decide on their upgrade plans;
We consider Apache 1.3.2 to be the most stable version of Apache
available.

Apache 1.3.2 is available for download from

    http://www.apache.org/dist/

Please see the CHANGES file in the same directory for a full list
of changes.  The distribution is also available via any of the
mirrors listed at

    http://www.apache.org/mirrors/

For an overview of new features in 1.3 please see

    http://www.apache.org/docs/new_features_1_3.html

In general, Apache 1.3 offers several substantial improvements
over version 1.2, including better performance, reliability and a
wider-range of supported platforms, including Windows 95 and NT
(which both fall under the "Win32" label).

Apache is the most popular web-server in the known universe; over
half of the servers on the Internet are running Apache or one of
its variants.

IMPORTANT NOTE FOR WIN32 USERS: Over the years, many users have
come to trust Apache as a secure and stable server.  It must
be realized that the current Win32 code has not yet reached these
levels and should still be considered to be of beta quality.  Any
Win32 stability or security problems do not impact, in any way,
Apache on other platforms.  With the continued donation of time
and resources by individuals and companies, we hope that the Win32
version of Apache will grow stronger through the 1.3.x release
cycle.

