Installing OpenBSD is a relatively complex process, but if you have
this document in hand and are careful to read and remember the
information which is presented to you by the install program, it
shouldn't be too much trouble.

Before you begin, you should know the geometry of your hard disk, i.e.
the sector size (note that sector sizes other than 512 bytes are not
currently supported), the number of sectors per track, the number of
tracks per cylinder (also known as the number of heads), and the
number of cylinders on the disk.  The OpenBSD kernel will try to
discover these parameters on its own, and if it can it will print them
at boot time.  If possible, you should use the parameters it prints.
(You might not be able to because you're sharing your disk with
another operating system, or because your disk is old enough that the
kernel can't figure out its geometry.)

If OpenBSD will be sharing the disk with DOS or another operating
system, you should have already completed the section of these notes
that instructed you on how to prepare your hard disk.  You should know
the size of the OpenBSD area of the disk and its offset from the
beginning of the disk.  You will need this information when setting up
your OpenBSD partitions.  If your BIOS uses translated geometry, you
should use this geometry for the remainder of the install.  This is
only necessary if you are sharing the disk with other operating systems
that use the translated geometry.

You should now be ready to install OpenBSD.

The following is a walk-through of the steps you will take while
getting OpenBSD installed on your hard disk.  If any question has a
default answer, it will be displayed in brackets ("[]") after the
question.  If you wish to stop the installation, you may hit Control-C
at any time, but if you do, you'll have to begin the installation
process again from scratch.

	At this time the system can primarily only be installed
	by network loading the bootloader. Once the bootloader
	is installed on the local harddrive the system can boot
	from local disk, but currently the bootloader cannot be
	loaded from CD.

	[include directions on where to look up network booting
	instructions]

	You will then be presented with the OpenBSD kernel boot
	messages.  You will want to read them, to determine your
	disk's name and geometry.  Its name will be something like
	"sd0" and the geometry will be printed on a line that
	begins with its name.  As mentioned above, you will need your
	disk's geometry when creating OpenBSD's partitions.  You will
	also need to know the name, to tell the install tools what
	disk to install on.  If you cannot read the messages as they
	scroll by, do not worry -- you can get at this information
	later inside the install program.

	While booting, you will probably see several warnings.  You
	should be warned that no swap space is present, and that
	init(8) cannot find /etc/rc.  Do not be alarmed, these are
	completely normal.  When you reach the prompt asking you for a
	shell name, just hit return.

	You will be presented with a welcome message and a prompt.  At
	this time you should enter the command "install" to start the
	installation process.

	You will be asked which terminal type to use, vt100 will work
	almost acceptably, however no terminal type quite works correctly)

	The install program will then tell you which disks of that
	type it can install on, and ask you which it should use.  The
	name of the disk is typically "wd0" for IDE drives.  Reply
	with the name of your disk. 

	Next you will have to edit or create a disklabel for the disk
	OpenBSD is being installed on.  If there are any existing
	partitions defined (for any operating system), and a disk label
	is not found, you will first be given an opportunity to run
	fdisk and create an OpenBSD partition.

	If fdisk is being invoked on your behalf, it will start by
	displaying the current partitions defined and then allow you
	to modify this information, add new partitions and change
	which partition to boot from by default.  If you make a mistake,
	you will be allowed to repeat this procedure as necessary to
	correct this.  Note that you should make OpenBSD be the active
	partition at least until the install has been completed.

	Next the disk label which defines the layout of the OpenBSD file
	systems must be set up.  The installation script will invoke an
	editor allowing you to do this.  Note that partition 'c' inside
	this disk label should ALWAYS reflect the entire disk, including
	any non-OpenBSD portions.  The root file system should be in
	partition 'a', and swap is usually in partition 'b'.  If you have
	DOS or Linux partitions defined on the disk, these will usually
	show up as partition 'h', 'i' and so on.  It is recommended that
	you create separate partitions for /usr and /var, and if you have
	room for it, also for /home.
	Currently OpenBSD will not share a disk with any other operating
	system care should be taken not to overwrite any data on other
	disks in the system and that no data is on the disk to be used 
	for OpenBSD/MACHINE

	Note that all OpenBSD partitions in the disk label must have an
	offset that makes it start within the OpenBSD part of the disk,
	and a size that keeps it inside of that portion of the disk.  This
	is within the bounds of the 'c' partition.

	The swap partition (usually 'b') should have a type of "swap", all
	other native OpenBSD partitions should have a type of "4.2BSD".
	Block and fragment sizes are usually 8192 and 1024 bytes, but can
	also be 4096 and 512 or even 16384 and 2048 bytes.

	The install program will now label your disk and ask which file
	systems should be created on which partitions.  It will auto-
	matically select the 'a' partition to be the root file system.
	Next it will ask for which disk and partition you want a file
	system created on.  This will be the same as the disk name (eg.
	"sd0") with the letter identifying the partition (eg. "d")
	appended (eg. "sd0d").  Then it will ask where this partition is
	to be mounted, eg. /usr.  This process will be repeated until
	you just hit return.

	At this point you will be asked to confirm that the file system
	information you have entered is correct, and given an opportunity
	to change the file system table.  Next it will create the new file
	systems as specified, OVERWRITING ANY EXISTING DATA.  This is the
	point of no return.

	After all your file systems have been created, the install program
	will give you an opportunity to configure the network.  The network
	configuration you enter (if any) can then be used to do the install
	from another system using NFS, HTTP or FTP, and will also be the
	configuration used by the system after the installation is complete.

	If you select to configure the network, the install program will
	ask you for a name of your system and the DNS domain name to use.
	Note that the host name should be without the domain part, and that
	the domain name should NOT {:-include-:} the host name part.

	Next the system will give you a list of network interfaces you can
	configure.  For each network interface you select to configure, it
	will ask for the IP address to use, the symbolic host name to use,
	the netmask to use and any interface-specific flags to set.  The
	interface-specific flags are usually used to determine which media
	the network card is to use. Supply the apropriate media options
	as suggested, Typically no media flags are required as autodetect
	normally works.

	After all network interfaces has been configured the install pro-
	gram will ask for a default route and IP address of the primary
	name server to use.  You will also be presented with an opportunity
	to edit the host table.

	At this point you will be allowed to edit the file system table
	that will be used for the remainder of the installation and that
	will be used by the finished system, following which the new file
	systems will be mounted to complete the installation.

	After these preparatory steps has been completed, you will be
	able to extract the distribution sets onto your system.  There
	are several install methods supported; FTP, HTTP, tape, CD-ROM, NFS
	or a local disk partition.  To install from a tape, the distrib-
	ution sets must have been written to tape prior to running the
	installation program, either as tar images or as gzipped tar
	images.  Note that installation from floppies are not currently
	supported.

OpenBSDFTPInstall

OpenBSDHTTPInstall

OpenBSDTAPEInstall

OpenBSDCDROMInstall
		
OpenBSDNFSInstall

OpenBSDDISKInstall(,,{:- or MS-DOS-:})
		
OpenBSDCommonFS

OpenBSDCommonURL

OpenBSDCongratulations

