        This port requires IBM C/C++ and the IBM TCPIP library.
You'll need to edit the makefile to reflect your system's paths
(unless you're our customer for this port, in which case the paths
are correct because we did the port on your machine. :-) ).

        I'm having some weird problem with "\" vs. "/".  If I build
with "\" as the path separator in the makefile, the compiler dumps
core.  Go figure.  If I build with "/" as the path separator, the
object files compile fine but the linker thinks the "/" is indicating
options and gets all confused (though at least it doesn't dump core).

        Right now the solution is to have a makefile variable called
SL, which must be set to "/" for the first invocation of make and "\"
for the second (the first pass will successfully build the object
files, but you can expect it do die with "unknown options" errors at
link time).

        $SL is defined near the top of the makefile.  If you're going
to set $SL in the makefile itself, make sure to quote it ("\\").  On
the command line (i.e., "make SL=\"), I believe just one will do.

        That should be all -- edit the makefile, do "make" twice
(changing $SL the second time), and get os2\cvs.exe.  Assuming you
have edited the `install_dir' variable in the Makefile, you may type
"make install-cvs" to put cvs.exe in the right place.

        If the makefile has linefeeds only at the end of lines, make
(at least the port of GNU make that I have) will interpret it
differently.  This is (IMHO) a bizarre behavior, but you need to
convert the linefeeds to CRLF pairs (editing the file with an editor
such as emacs will generally do this).

        You will get warnings during the compilation; ignore them.
Report bugs to <bug-cvs@prep.ai.mit.edu>.

-Karl
 <kfogel@cyclic.com>
