dnl     $OpenBSD$

There are several things that need to be done in order to install
OpenBSD/MACHINE .

In case we'll be installing on the SD card driven by PXAMCI, We'll need
like 8 Mb FAT16 formated partition at the begining of the card, that'll
be for the bootloader running for PalmOS and will contain also the
kernel binary. We can create this partition by for example running
fdisk(8).  Once we have the partition ready, we have to create a
filesystem on it. Achieve that by running:

        $ newfs_msdos <device>

where '<device>' is the new partition we just created. Now mount the
partition and create directories '/PALM' and '/PALM/Launcher'. Once
done, copy the bootloader binary called 'cocoboot.prc' into
'/PALM/Launcher' and the kernel binary with RAMDISK into '/zImage'. The
'cocoboot.prc' file can be obtained by downloading the file like so:

        $ ftp http://marex.hackndev.com/OpenBSD/cocoboot.prc

This step is needed as cocoboot cannot be distributed with OpenBSD since
it's licensed under the GPL.
Of course, you can operate with 'cocoboot.conf' and make the bootloader
pick a proper kernel name, but that's up to users comfort and beyond the
scrope of this document. You need to be sure to copy the kernel with
RAMDISK, otherwise the installer won't be there and you won't be able to
install, but instead you'll end with kernel debugger shell complaining
there is no boot device.

Now we need to setup the USB part. Many Palm models don't support USB
host by default, but it's mainly a software limitation of PalmOS. The
only problem with USB is that the device doesn't supply the VBUS.
Therefore you'll need a USB A to A converted and a powered USB hub. Now,
connect the power supply to the hub, connect the cable that normally
goes between the PC and the hub into one side of the A to A converter
and the USB data cable for Palm to the other side of the A to A
converter. So the port of the USB hub that normally is connected to a
USB host is now connected to Palm's USB port. Here's a simple
schematics:

.------.
| Palm |]-------=[ A to A converter ]=--------------=[ USB hub ]
'------'

Now that everything's ready, plug the USB cable into Palm if you haven't
done so yet.

When booting OpenBSD on at least the Tungsten T|5 model, make sure the
following items are taken care of, or the internal uhub(4) will be
disabled.

        - Boot OpenBSD directly after resetting the device, before it
          goes to sleep mode.
        - Always reset the device before booting OpenBSD.
        - If the power adapter is plugged into the UART cable, booting
          may also fail. Best way to work around this is to boot OpenBSD
          with the power cable removed, and plug the cable back in once
          OpenBSD has been booted.

Failing to comply with the above items may result not being able to use
the keyboard, network interfaces, etc.
