The actual order form follows the descriptions of media contents.

Most of this file is excerpted from the July 1997 GNU's Bulletin.

Please send suggestions for improvements to gnu@prep.ai.mit.edu or the postal
address at the end of the order form.  Thank You.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
FSF Order Form with Descriptions                       July, 1997
   


Free Software Foundation, Inc.     Telephone: +1-617-542-5942
59 Temple Place - Suite 330        Fax: (including Japan) +1-617-542-2652
Boston, MA   02111-1307            Electronic Mail: `gnu@prep.ai.mit.edu'
USA                                World Wide Web: http://www.gnu.ai.mit.edu
 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------



There are some sections (e.g. ``Forthcoming GNUs'' and ``How to Get GNU
Software'') which are not in this Order Form file.  If you wish to see them,
ask gnu@prep.ai.mit.edu for the complete July, 1997 GNU's Bulletin.



Table of Contents
-----------------

        New European Distributor
	Donations Translate Into Free Software
	Cygnus Matches Donations!
	Free Software Redistributors Donate
	Help from Free Software Companies
	Major Changes in GNU Software and Documentation
	The Deluxe Distribution
	GNU Documentation
	GNU Software

	Program/Package Cross Reference
	CD-ROMs
	   Pricing of the GNU CD-ROMs
	      What Do the Different Prices Mean?
	      Why Is There an Individual Price?
	      Is There a Maximum Price?
	   January 1997 Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM
	   Source Code CD-ROMs
	      July 1997 Source Code CD-ROMs
	      January 1997 Source Code CD-ROMs
	CD-ROM Subscription Service
	FSF T-shirt
	Free Software Foundation Order Form


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------



New European Distributor
************************

The Free Software Foundation now has a European distribution agent: GNU
Distribution Europe, Belgium.

Users in European Community countries can order GNU manuals, CD-ROMs and
T-shirts through this distribution agent, and get a lower overall price (due
to reduced shipping costs) and quicker delivery.

Write to GNU Distribution Europe--Belgium, Sportstaat 28, 9000 Gent, Belgium;
Fax: +32-9-2224976; Phone: +32-9-2227542; Email:
`europe-order@gnu.ai.mit.edu'.


Donations Translate Into Free Software
**************************************

If you appreciate Emacs, GNU CC, Ghostscript, and other free software, you
may wish to help us make sure there is more in the future--remember,
*donations translate into more free software!*

Your donation to us is tax-deductible in the United States.  We gladly accept
*any* currency, although the U.S. dollar is the most convenient.

If your employer has a matching gifts program for charitable donations,
please arrange to: add the FSF to the list of organizations for your
employer's matching gifts program; and have your donation matched (note *Note
Cygnus Matches Donations!::).  If you do not know, please ask your personnel
department.

Circle amount you are donating, cut out this form, and send it with your
donation to:

        Free Software Foundation, Inc.
        59 Temple Place - Suite 330
        Boston, MA  02111-1307
        USA

      $500   $250   $100   $50   Other $_____  Other currency:_____

You can charge a donation to any of Carte Blanche, Diner's Club, JCB,
MasterCard, Visa, or American Express.  Charges may also be faxed to
+1-617-542-2652.

      Card type: __________________  Expiration Date: _____________
     
      Account Number: _____________________________________________
     
      Cardholder's Signature: _____________________________________
     
      Name: _______________________________________________________
     
      Street Address: _____________________________________________
     
      City/State/Province: ________________________________________
     
      Zip Code/Postal Code/Country: _______________________________
     
      Telephone Number: ___________________________________________
     
      Email Address: ______________________________________________

 

Cygnus Matches Donations!
*************************

To encourage cash donations to the Free Software Foundation, Cygnus Solutions
will continue to contribute corporate funds to the FSF to accompany gifts by
its employees, and by its customers and their employees.

Donations payable to the Free Software Foundation should be sent by eligible
persons to Cygnus Solutions, which will add its gifts and forward the total
to the FSF each quarter.  The FSF will provide the contributor with a receipt
to recognize the contribution (which is tax-deductible on U.S.  tax returns).
To see if your employer is a Cygnus customer, or for more information,
please contact Cygnus:

        Cygnus Solutions
        1325 Chesapeake Terrace
        Sunnyvale, CA   94089
        USA
     
        Telephone: +1 408 542 9600
                   +1 800 Cygnus1 (-294-6871)
        Fax:       +1 408 542 9700
        Electronic-Mail: `info@cygnus.com'
        FTP: `ftp.cygnus.com'

 

Free Software Redistributors Donate
***********************************

The French redistributor PACT has agreed to donate $1.00 for each GNU/Linux
CD that they sell.

Red Hat Software has agreed to donate $1.00 to the FSF for every copy of Red
Hat Archives sold.  They have also added a GNU logo to the back of that CD
with the words "Supports the Free Software Foundation".

The SNOW 2.1 CD producers added the words "Includes $5 donation to the FSF"
to the front of their CD.  Potential buyers will know just how much of the
price is for the FSF & how much is for the redistributor.

The Sun Users Group Deutschland has made it even clearer: their CD says,
"Price 90 DM, + 12 DM donation to the FSF." We thank them for their
contribution to our efforts.

Kyoto Micro Computer of Japan regularly gives us 10% of their GNU-related
sales.

Mr. Hiroshi, Mr. Kojima, and the other authors of the `Linux Primer' in Japan
have donated money from the sales of their book.

Infomagic has continued to make sizable donations to the FSF.

At the request of author Arnold Robbins, Specialized Systems Consultants, Inc.
continues to donate 3% of their profits from selling `Effective AWK
Programming'.  We would also like to acknowledge the many SSC authors who
have donated their royalties and fees to the FSF.

In the long run, the success of free software depends on how much new free
software people develop.  Free software distribution offers an opportunity to
raise funds for such development in an ethical way.  These redistributors
have made use of the opportunity.  Many others let it go to waste.

You can help promote free software development by convincing for-a-fee
redistributors to contribute--either by doing development themselves or by
donating to development organizations (the FSF and others).

The way to convince distributors to contribute is to demand and expect this
of them.  This means choosing among distributors partly by how much they give
to free software development.  Then you can show distributors they must
compete to be the one who gives the most.

To make this work, you must insist on numbers that you can compare, such as,
"We will give ten dollars to the Foobar project for each disk sold." A vague
commitment, such as "A portion of the profits is donated," doesn't give you a
basis for comparison.  Even a precise fraction "of the profits from this
disk" is not very meaningful, since creative accounting and unrelated
business decisions can greatly alter what fraction of the sales price counts
as profit.

Also, press developers for firm information about what kind of development
they do or support.  Some kinds make much more long-term difference than
others.  For example, maintaining a separate version of a GNU program
contributes very little; maintaining a program on behalf of the GNU Project
contributes much.  Easy new ports contribute little, since someone else would
surely do them; difficult ports such as adding a new CPU to the GNU compiler
or Mach contribute more; major new features & programs contribute the most.

By establishing the idea that supporting further development is "the proper
thing to do" when distributing free software for a fee, we can assure a
steady flow of resources for making more free software.

 

Help from Free Software Companies
*********************************

When choosing a free software business, ask those you are considering how
much they do to assist free software development, e.g., by contributing money
to free software development or by writing free software improvements
themselves for general use.  By basing your decision partially on this
factor, you can help encourage those who profit from free software to
contribute to its growth.

Wingnut (SRA's special GNU support group) supports the FSF by purchasing
Deluxe Distribution packages on a regular basis.  In this way they transfer
10% of their income to the FSF.  Listing them here is our way of thanking
them.

        Wingnut Project
        Software Research Associates, Inc.
        1-1-1 Hirakawa-cho, Chiyoda-ku
        Tokyo 102, Japan
     
        Phone:  (+81-3)3234-2611
        Fax:    (+81-3)3942-5174
        E-mail: `info-wingnut@sra.co.jp'
        WWW: `http://www.sra.co.jp/public/sra/product/wingnut/'

 

Major Changes in GNU Software and Documentation
***********************************************

   * Hurd Progress   (Also *note What Is the Hurd::.)

     We have made three test releases of the Hurd, the most recent being 0.2.
     The Hurd is currently much more reliable than previously, and various
     utilities and file system translators, such as an FTP file system, have
     been written that take advantage of the Hurd's unique design.

     One way for people to help out is to compile and run as much third-party
     free software as they can; in this way we can find bugs and deficiencies
     with some rapidity.  Volunteers with a PC are therefore eagerly sought to
     get the 0.2 release and compile their favorite Unix programs and games.

     Daily snapshots of the Hurd sources are now available for those that
     want to see the latest (non-stable) version; see the Hurd page on the
     FSF Web site, `http://www.gnu.ai.mit.edu', for more information.

   * New Source Code CD!   (*note July 1997 Source Code CD-ROMs::.)

     We are releasing the July 1997 (Edition 10) Source Code CD-ROM this
     month.  Once again, it is a two disk set.  It includes several new
     packages: `aegis', `cook', `guavac', `lesstif', `prcs', `rsync', `swarm',
     & `vera'.  On the CD-ROMs are full distributions of X11R6.3,,
     Emacs, GCC, and current versions of all other GNU Software.  *Note GNU
     Software::, for more about these packages.

   * New/Updated Manuals since Last Bulletin   (*note Documentation::.)

     Since the last bulletin, we have published several updated editions of
     our manuals (note the price changes): `GNU Emacs Manual', revised for
     GNU Emacs version 20, now $30; & `Texinfo Manual', for version 3.11 of
     Texinfo, now $25.  We hope to have the following available very soon:
     `GNU Tar manual', first time in print, freshly reorganized and
     rewritten, $20; `GNU Software for MS-Windows and MS-DOS', a book and
     CD-ROM set with a variety of GNU software compiled for MS-DOS and
     Windows 3.1/95/97/NT, $35 ($140 for corporate orders).  Watch our Web
     site, `http://www.gnu.ai.mit.edu', for announcements of these
     publications.

   * Fonts freed

     A free commercial-quality set of the basic 35 Postscript Type 1 fonts is
     now finally available.  The copyright holder of these fonts, URW++
     Design and Development Incorporated, has decided to release them under
     the GPL.  Each font includes `.pfb' (outlines), `.afm' (metrics), and
     `.pfm' (Windows printer metrics) files.  The fonts are compatible with
     Adobe Type Manager and with general Type 1 manipulation tools, as well
     as with Ghostscript and other Postscript language interpreters.

     The fonts are available in `ghostscript-fonts-4.0.tar.gz' on the usual
     FTP sites.

   * DDD now works with LessTif   (Also *note GNU Software::.) Release 2.1.1
     of DDD, the Data Display Debugger, now works with LessTif, a free Motif
     clone.

   * Give to GNU the United Way!

     As a 501(c)3 tax-exempt organization, the FSF is eligible to receive
     United Way funds.  When donating to United Way, one can specify that all
     or part of the donation be directed to the FSF.  On the donor form,
     check the "Specific Requests" box and include the sentence, "Send my
     gift to the Free Software Foundation, 59 Temple Place, Suite 330,
     Boston, MA 02111." We especially appreciate the donations from Microsoft
     matching the United Way donations of their employees.  Also see *Note
     Donations Translate Into Free Software::, and *Note Cygnus Matches
     Donations!::.

   * Tapes and MS-DOS Diskettes No Longer Available from the FSF

     We no longer offer tapes or MS-DOS diskettes due to very low demand.

   * GNU Software Works on MS-DOS   (Also *note GNU Software::.)

     GNU Emacs 19 and many other GNU programs have been ported to MS-DOS for
     i386/i486/Pentium machines.  We ship binaries & sources on the *Note
     Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM::.

   * The FSF Takes Discover

     The Free Software Foundation now accepts the Discover card for orders or
     donations.  We also accept the following: Carte Blanche, Diner's Club,
     JCB, MasterCard, Visa, and American Express.  Note that we are charged
     about 5% of an order's total amount in credit card processing fees;
     please consider paying by check instead or adding on a 5% donation to
     make up the difference.  We do *not* recommend that you send credit card
     numbers to us via email, since we have no way of insuring that the
     information will remain confidential.

   * MULE Merge Complete

     MULE is the Multi-Lingual Emacs developed by Ken'ichi Handa at the
     Electrotechnical Lab in Tsukuba, Japan.  This code has been merged into
     Emacs and is included in Emacs 20.

   * GPC, the GNU Pascal Compiler

     The GNU Pascal Compiler (GPC) is part of the GNU compiler family, GNU CC
     or GCC.  It combines a Pascal front end with the proven GNU compiler
     backend for code generation and optimization.  Unlike utilities such as
     p2c, this is a true compiler, not just a converter.

     Version 2.0 of GPC corresponds to GCC version 2.7.2.1.

     The purpose of the GNU Pascal project is to produce a compiler which:
        * combines the clarity of Pascal with powerful tools suitable for
          real-life programming,

        * supports both the Pascal standard and the Extended Pascal standard
          as defined by ISO, ANSI and IEEE.  (ISO 7185:1990, ISO/IEC
          10206:1991, ANSI/IEEE 770X3.160-1989)

        * supports other Pascal standards (UCSD Pascal, Borland Pascal,
          Pascal-SC) in so far as this serves the goal of clarity and
          usability,

        * can generate code for and run on any computer for which the GNU C
          Compiler can generate code and run on.

     The current release (2.0) implements Standard Pascal (ISO 7185, level 0)
     and a large subset of Extended Pascal (ISO 10206) and Borland Pascal.

     The upcoming release 2.1 features better conformance to the various
     Pascal standards, and of course bug fixes.

     A growing group of GPC enthusiasts contributes to the project with code,
     bug reports or fixes.

     `http://agnes.dida.physik.uni-essen.de/~gnu-pascal/', also known as
     `http://home.pages.de/~gnu-pascal/', is the GNU Pascal home page;
     sources may be downloaded from `ftp://kampi.hut.fi/jtv/gnu-pascal/'
     (official) or `ftp://agnes.dida.physik.uni-essen.de/pub/gnu-pascal/'
     (development versions).

   * GUILE

     GUILE 1.2 is released.  GNU's Ubiquitous Intelligent Language for
     Extension is an SCM-based library that can make any ordinary C program
     extensible.  (For SCM info, see "JACAL" in *Note GNU Software::.)
     Nightly snapshots of the development sources are also available, in
     `ftp://ftp.red-bean.com/pub/guile/guile-core-snap.tar.gz'.

     Also being developed are SCSH-compatible system call & Tk interfaces, a
     module system, dynamic linking support, & a byte-code interpreter.
     Support for Emacs Lisp & a more C-like language is coming.

   * A New FSF T-shirt!

     We have a new T-shirt design.  *Note FSF T-shirt::, for the description.

   * New free game

     In August 1995, the action game Abuse by Jonathan Clark was released for
     the first time.  It wasn't free software then--but now, less than two
     years later, the company Crack dot Com has rereleased it as free
     software.  Abuse was initially developed on Linux-based GNU systems, and
     we've included it on our our source CD set.

     Beyond providing the free software community with a game that many
     people enjoy, and code that could be useful for developing other free
     games, this demonstrates an important fact about the economic
     circumstances of computer game development: most non-free games bring
     their profit in a very short period of time.  Therefore, a game company
     can turn a game into free software fairly soon, with little hardship.

     Let's hope that other game developers follow this example.



The Deluxe Distribution
***********************

The Free Software Foundation has been asked repeatedly to create a package
that provides executables for all of our software.  Normally we offer only
sources.  The Deluxe Distribution provides binaries with the source code and
includes six T-shirts, all our CD-ROMs, printed manuals, & reference cards.

The FSF Deluxe Distribution contains the binaries and sources to hundreds of
different programs including Emacs, the GNU C/C++ Compiler, the GNU Debugger,
the complete X Window System, and all the GNU utilities.

We will make a Deluxe Distribution for most machines/operating systems.  We
may be able to send someone to your office to do the compilation, if we can't
find a suitable machine here.  However, we can only compile the programs that
already support your chosen machine/system - porting is a separate matter.
(To commission a port, see the GNU Service Directory; details in *Note Free
Software Support::.) Compiling all these programs takes time; a Deluxe
Distribution for an unusual machine will take longer to produce than one for
a common machine.  Please contact the FSF Office with any questions.

We supply the software on a write-once CD-ROM (in ISO 9660 format with "Rock
Ridge" extensions), or on one of these tapes in Unix `tar' format: 1600 or
6250bpi 1/2in reel, Sun DC300XLP 1/4in cartridge - QIC24, IBM RS/6000 1/4in
c.t. - QIC 150, Exabyte 8mm c.t., or DAT 4mm c.t.  If your computer cannot
read any of these, please contact us to see if we can handle your format.

The manuals included are one each of `Bison', `Calc', `GAWK', `GCC', `GNU C
Library', `GDB', `Flex', `GNU Emacs Lisp Reference', `Programming in Emacs
Lisp: An Introduction', `Make', `Texinfo', & `Termcap' manuals; six copies of
the `GNU Emacs' manual; and ten reference cards each for Emacs, Bison, Calc,
Flex, & GDB.

Every Deluxe Distribution also has a copy of the latest editions of our
CD-ROMs that have sources of our software & compiler tool binaries for some
systems.  The CDs are in ISO 9660 format with Rock Ridge extensions.

The price of the Deluxe Distribution is $5000 (shipping included).  These
sales provide enormous financial assistance to help the FSF develop more free
software.  To order, please fill out the "Deluxe Distribution" section on the
*note Free Software Foundation Order Form::.  and send it to:

        Free Software Foundation, Inc.
        59 Temple Place - Suite 330
        Boston, MA   02111-1307
        USA
     
        Telephone: +1-617-542-5942
        Fax (including Japan): +1-617-542-2652
        Electronic Mail: gnu@prep.ai.mit.edu
        World Wide Web: http://www.gnu.ai.mit.edu

 

GNU Documentation
*****************

GNU is dedicated to having quality, easy-to-use online & printed
documentation.  GNU manuals are intended to explain underlying concepts,
describe how to use all the features of each program, & give examples of
command use.  GNU manuals are distributed as Texinfo source files, which
yield both typeset hardcopy via the TeX document formatting system and online
hypertext display via the menu-driven Info system.  Source for these manuals
comes with our software; here are the manuals that we publish as printed
books.  *Note Free Software Foundation Order Form::, to order them.

Most GNU manuals are bound as soft cover books with "lay-flat" bindings.
This allows you to open them so they lie flat on a table without creasing the
binding.  They have an inner cloth spine and an outer cardboard cover that
will not break or crease as an ordinary paperback will.  Currently, the
`Using and Porting GNU CC', `GDB', `Emacs', `Emacs Lisp Reference',
`Programming in Emacs Lisp: An Introduction', `GNU Awk User's Guide', `Make',
& `Bison' manuals have this binding.  Our other manuals also lie flat when
opened, using a GBC binding.  Our manuals are 7in by 9.25in except the 8.5in
by 11in `Calc' manual.

The edition number of the manual and version number of the program listed
after each manual's name were current at the time this Bulletin was published.

`Debugging with GDB' (for Version 4.16) tells how to run your program under
GNU Debugger control, examine and alter data, modify a program's flow of
control, and use GDB through GNU Emacs.

The `GNU Emacs Manual' (13th Edition for Version 20) describes editing with
GNU Emacs.  It explains advanced features, including international character
sets; outline mode and regular expression search; how to use special
programming modes to write languages like C++ and TeX; how to use the `tags'
utility; how to compile and correct code; how to make your own keybindings;
and other elementary customizations.

`Programming in Emacs Lisp: An Introduction' (October 1995 Edition 1.04) is
for people who are not necessarily interested in programming, but who do want
to customize or extend their computing environment.  If you read it in Emacs
under Info mode, you can run the sample programs directly.

`The GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual' (Edition 2.4 for Version 19.29) and
`The GNU Emacs Lisp Reference, Japanese Edition' (Japanese Draft Revision
1.0, from English Edition 2.4 for Version 19.29) cover this programming
language in depth, including data types, control structures, functions,
macros, syntax tables, searching/matching, modes, windows, keymaps, byte
compilation, and the operating system interface.

`The GNU Awk User's Guide' (Edition 1.0 for Version 3.0) tells how to use
`gawk'.  It is written for those who have never used `awk' and describes
features of this powerful string and record manipulation language.  It
clearly delineates those features which are part of POSIX `awk' from `gawk'
extensions, providing a comprehensive guide to `awk' program portability.

`GNU Make' (Edition 0.51 for Version 3.76 Beta) describes GNU `make', a
program used to rebuild parts of other programs.  The manual tells how to
write "makefiles", which specify how a program is to be compiled and how its
files depend on each other.  Included are an introductory chapter for novice
users and a section about automatically generated dependencies.

The `Flex' manual (Edition 1.03 for Version 2.3.7) teaches you to write a
lexical scanner definition for the `flex' program to create a C++ or C-coded
scanner that recognizes the patterns defined.  You need no prior knowledge of
scanners.

`The Bison Manual' (November 1995 Edition for Version 1.25) teaches you how
to write context-free grammars for the Bison program that convert into
C-coded parsers.  You need no prior knowledge of parser generators.

`Using and Porting GNU CC' (November 1995 Edition for Version 2.7.2) tells
how to run, install, and port the GNU C Compiler to new systems.  It lists
new features and incompatibilities of GCC, but people not familiar with C
will still need a good reference on the C programming language.  It also
covers G++.

The `Texinfo' manual (Edition 2.24 for Version 3) explains the markup
language that produces our online Info documentation & typeset hardcopies.
It tells you how to make tables, lists, chapters, nodes, accented & special
characters, indexes, cross references, & how to catch mistakes.

`The Termcap Manual' (3rd Edition for Version 1.3), often described as "twice
as much as you ever wanted to know about termcap," details the format of the
termcap database, the definitions of terminal capabilities, and the process
of interrogating a terminal description.  This manual is primarily for
programmers.

The `C Library Reference Manual' (Edition 0.08 for Version 2.0) describes the
library's facilities, including both what Unix calls "library functions" &
"system calls."  We are doing small copier runs of this manual until it
becomes more stable.  Please send fixes to `bug-glibc-manual@prep.ai.mit.edu'.

The `Emacs Calc Manual' (for Version 2.02) is both a tutorial and a reference
manual.  It tells how to do ordinary arithmetic, how to use Calc for algebra,
calculus, and other forms of mathematics, and how to extend Calc.

 

GNU Software
************

All our software is available via FTP; see *Note How to Get GNU Software::.
We also offer *Note CD-ROMs::, and printed *Note Documentation::, which
includes manuals and reference cards.  In the articles describing the
contents of each medium, the version number listed after each program name
was current when we published this Bulletin.  When you order a newer CD-ROM,
some of the programs may be newer and therefore the version number higher.
*Note Free Software Foundation Order Form::, for ordering information.

Some of the contents of our FTP distributions are compressed.  We have
software on our FTP sites to uncompress these files.  Due to patent troubles
with `compress', we use another compression program, `gzip'.

You may need to build GNU `make' before you build our other software.  Some
vendors supply no `make' utility at all and some native `make' programs lack
the `VPATH' feature essential for using the GNU configure system to its full
extent.  The GNU `make' sources have a shell script to build `make' itself on
such systems.

We welcome all bug reports and enhancements sent to the appropriate
electronic mailing list (*note Free Software Support::.).

 

Configuring GNU Software
------------------------

We are using Autoconf, a uniform scheme for configuring GNU software packages
in order to compile them (see "Autoconf" and "Automake" below, in this
article).  The goal is to have all GNU software support the same alternatives
for naming machine and system types.

Ultimately, it will be possible to configure and build the entire system all
at once, eliminating the need to configure each individual package separately.

You can also specify both the host and target system to build
cross-compilation tools.  Most GNU programs now use Autoconf-generated
configure scripts.

 

GNU Software Now Available
--------------------------

For future programs and features, see *Note Forthcoming GNUs::.

Key to cross reference:

        BinCD        January 1997 Binaries CD-ROM
        SrcCD        July 1997 Source CD-ROMs

[FSFman] shows that we sell a manual for that package.  [FSFrc] shows we sell
a reference card for that package.  To order them, *Note Free Software
Foundation Order Form::.  *Note Documentation::, for more information on the
manuals.  Source code for each manual or reference card is included with each
package.

   * `abuse'   *Also *note GNUs Flashes::.*   (SrcCD)

     The recently-freed program `abuse' is a dark, side-scrolling game with
     Robotron-esque controls: you control your movement with the keyboard and
     fire & aim with the mouse.  You can get more info at
     `http://crack.com/games/abuse'.

   * acct   (SrcCD)

     acct is a system accounting package.  It includes the programs `ac'
     (summarize login accounting), `accton' (turn accounting on or off),
     `last' (show who has logged in recently), `lastcomm' (show which
     commands have been used), `sa' (summarize process accounting),
     `dump-utmp' (print a `utmp' file in human-readable format), &
     `dump-acct' (print an `acct' or `pacct' file in human-readable format).

   * `acm'   (SrcCD)

     `acm' is a LAN-oriented, multiplayer, aerial combat simulation that runs
     under the X Window System.  Players engage in air to air combat against
     one another using heat seeking missiles and cannons.  We are working on
     a more accurate simulation of real airplane flight characteristics.

   * aegis   (SrcCD)

     Aegis is a transaction-based software configuration management system.
     It provides a framework within which a team of developers may work on
     many changes to a program concurrently, and Aegis coordinates
     integrating these changes back into the master source of the program,
     with as little disruption as possible.

   * Apache   *Also see* `http://www.apache.org/'   (SrcCD)

     Apache is an HTTP server designed as a successor to the NCSA family of
     Web servers.  It adds a significant amount of new functionality, has an
     extensive API for modular enhancements, is extremely flexible without
     compromising speed, and has an active development group and user
     community.

   * Autoconf   (SrcCD)

     Autoconf produces shell scripts which automatically configure source code
     packages.  These scripts adapt the packages to many kinds of Unix-like
     systems without manual user intervention.  Autoconf creates a script for
     a package from a template file which lists the operating system features
     which the package can use, in the form of `m4' macro calls.  Autoconf
     requires GNU `m4' to operate, but the resulting configure scripts it
     generates do not.

   * Automake   (SrcCD)

     Automake is a tool for generating `Makefile.in' files for use with
     Autoconf.  The generated makefiles are compliant with GNU Makefile
     standards.

   * BASH   (SrcCD)

     GNU's shell, BASH (Bourne Again SHell), is compatible with the Unix `sh'
     and offers many extensions found in `csh' and `ksh'.  BASH has job
     control, `csh'-style command history, command-line editing (with Emacs
     and `vi' modes built-in), and the ability to rebind keys via the
     `readline' library.  BASH conforms to the POSIX 1003.2-1992 standard.

   * bc   (SrcCD)

     `bc' is an interactive algebraic language with arbitrary precision
     numbers.  GNU `bc' follows the POSIX 1003.2-1992 standard with several
     extensions, including multi-character variable names, an `else'
     statement, and full Boolean expressions.  The RPN calculator `dc' is now
     distributed as part of the same package, but GNU `bc' is not implemented
     as a `dc' preprocessor.

   * BFD   (BinCD, SrcCD)

     The Binary File Descriptor library allows a program which operates on
     object files (e.g., `ld' or GDB) to support many different formats in a
     clean way.  BFD provides a portable interface, so that only BFD needs to
     know the details of a particular format.  One result is that all
     programs using BFD will support formats such as a.out, COFF, and ELF.
     BFD comes with Texinfo source for a manual (not yet published on paper).

     At present, BFD is not distributed separately; it is included with
     packages that use it.

   * Binutils   (BinCD, SrcCD)

     Binutils includes these programs: `addr2line', `ar', `c++filt', `gas',
     `gprof', `ld', `nm', `objcopy', `objdump', `ranlib', `size', `strings', &
     `strip'.

     Binutils version 2 uses the BFD library.  The GNU assembler, `gas',
     supports the a29k, Alpha, ARM, D10V, H8/300, H8/500, HP-PA, i386, i960,
     M32R, m68k, m88k, MIPS, Matsushita 10200 and 10300, NS32K, PowerPC,
     RS/6000, SH, SPARC, Tahoe, Vax, and Z8000 CPUs, and attempts to be
     compatible with many other assemblers for Unix and embedded systems.  It
     can produce mixed C and assembly listings, and includes a macro facility
     similar to that in some other assemblers.  GNU's linker, `ld', supports
     shared libraries on many systems, emits source-line numbered error
     messages for multiply-defined symbols and undefined references, and
     interprets a superset of AT&T's Linker Command Language, which gives
     control over where segments are placed in memory.  `objdump' can
     disassemble code for most of the CPUs listed above, and can display
     other data (e.g., symbols and relocations) from any file format read by
     BFD.

   * Bison   (BinCD, SrcCD)   [FSFman, FSFrc]

     Bison is an upwardly compatible replacement for the parser generator
     `yacc'.  Texinfo source for the `Bison Manual' and reference card are
     included.

   * C Library (`glibc')   (BinCD, SrcCD)   [FSFman]

     The GNU C library supports ISO C-1989, ISO C/amendment 1-1995, POSIX
     1003.1-1990, POSIX 1003.1b-1993, POSIX 1003.1c-1995 (when the underlying
     system permits), & most of the functions in POSIX 1003.2-1992.  It is
     nearly compliant with the extended XPG4.2 specification which guarantees
     upward compatibility with 4.4BSD & many System V functions.

     When used with the GNU Hurd, the C Library performs many functions of the
     Unix system calls directly.  Mike Haertel has written a fast `malloc'
     which wastes less memory than the old GNU version.

     GNU `stdio' lets you define new kinds of streams, just by writing a few
     C functions.  Two methods for handling translated messages help writing
     internationalized programs & the user can adopt the environment the
     program runs in to conform with local conventions.  Extended `getopt'
     functions are already used to parse options, including long options, in
     many GNU utilities.  The name lookup functions now are modularized which
     makes it easier to select the service which is needed for the specific
     database & the document interface makes it easy to add new services.
     Texinfo source for the `GNU C Library Reference Manual' is included
     (*note Documentation::.).

     Previous versions of the GNU C library ran on a large number of systems.
     The architecture-dependent parts of the C library have not been updated
     since development on version 2.0 started, so today it runs out of the
     box only on GNU/Hurd (all platforms GNU/Hurd also runs on) & GNU/Linux
     (ix86, Alpha, m68k, MIPS, Sparc, PowerPC; work is in progress for ARM).
     Other architectures will become available again as soon as somebody does
     the port.

   * C++ Library (`libg++')   (BinCD, SrcCD)

     The GNU C++ library (traditionally called `libg++') includes libstdc++,
     which implements the library facilities defined by the forthcoming ISO
     C++ standard.  This includes strings, iostream, and various container
     classes.  All of this is templatized.

     The package also contains the older libg++ library for backward
     compatibility, but new programs should avoid using it.

   * Calc   (SrcCD)   [FSFman, FSFrc]

     Calc (written by Dave Gillespie in Emacs Lisp) is an extensible, advanced
     desk calculator & mathematical tool that runs as part of GNU Emacs.  You
     can use Calc as a simple four-function calculator, but it has many more
     features including: choice of algebraic or RPN (stack-based) entry;
     logarithmic, trigonometric, & financial functions; arbitrary precision;
     complex numbers; vectors; matrices; dates; times; infinities; sets;
     algebraic simplification; & differentiation & integration.  It outputs
     to `gnuplot', & comes with source for a manual & reference card (*note
     Documentation::.).

   * `cfengine'   (SrcCD)

     `cfengine' is used to maintain site-wide configuration of a
     heterogeneous Unix network using a simple high level language.  Its
     appearance is similar to `rdist', but allows many more operations to be
     performed automatically.  See Mark Burgess, "A Site Configuration
     Engine", `Computing Systems', Vol. 8, No. 3 (ask `office@usenix.org' how
     to get a copy).

   * Chess   (SrcCD)

     GNU Chess enables you to play a game of chess with a computer instead of
     a person.  It is useful to practice with when there are significant
     spare cpu cycles and a real person is unavailable.

     The program offers a plain terminal interface, one using curses, and a
     reasonable X Windows interface `xboard'.  Best results are obtained by
     compiling with GNU C.

     Improvements this past year are in the Windows-compatible version,
     mostly bugfixes.

     Stuart Cracraft started the GNU mascot back in the mid-1980's.  John
     Stanback (and innumerable contributors) are responsible for GNU's brain
     development and its fair play.  Acknowledgements for the past year's
     work are due Conor McCarthy.

     Send bugs to `bug-gnu-chess@prep.ai.mit.edu' & general comments to
     `info-gnu-chess@prep.ai.mit.edu'.  Visit the author's Web site at
     `http://www.earthlink.net/~cracraft/index.html'.  Play GNU Chess on the
     Web at `http://www.delorie.com/game-room/chess'.

   * CLISP   (SrcCD)

     CLISP is a Common Lisp implementation by Bruno Haible & Michael Stoll.
     It mostly supports the Lisp described by `Common LISP: The Language (2nd
     edition)' & the ANSI Common Lisp standard.  CLISP includes an
     interpreter, a byte-compiler, a large subset of CLOS & a foreign language
     interface.  The user interface language (English, German, French) can be
     chosen at run time.  An X11 API is available through CLX & Garnet.
     CLISP needs only 2 MB of memory & runs on all kinds of Unix systems & on
     many microcomputers (including MS-DOS systems, OS/2, Windows NT, Windows
     95, Amiga 500-4000, & Acorn RISC PC).  See also item "Common Lisp",
     which describes GCL, a complete Common Lisp implementation with compiler.

   * CLX   (SrcCD)

     CLX is an X Window interface library for GCL.  This is separate from the
     built-in TK interface.

   * Common Lisp (`gcl')   (SrcCD)

     GNU Common Lisp (GCL, formerly known as Kyoto Common Lisp) is a compiler
     & interpreter for Common Lisp.  GCL is very portable & extremely
     efficient on a wide class of applications, & compares favorably in
     performance with commercial Lisps on several large theorem-prover &
     symbolic algebra systems.  GCL supports the CLtL1 specification but is
     moving towards the proposed ANSI standard.

     GCL compiles to C & then uses the native optimizing C compiler (e.g.,
     GCC).  A function with a fixed number of args & one value turns into a C
     function of the same number of args, returning one value--so GCL is
     maximally efficient on such calls.  Its conservative garbage collector
     gives great freedom to the C compiler to put Lisp values in registers.
     It has a source level Lisp debugger for interpreted code & displays
     source code in an Emacs window.  Its profiler (based on the C profiling
     tools) counts function calls & the time spent in each function.

     There is now a built-in interface to the Tk widget system.  It runs in a
     separate process, so users may monitor progress on Lisp computations or
     interact with running computations via a windowing interface.

     There is also an Xlib interface via C (xgcl-2).  CLX runs with GCL, as
     does PCL (see "PCL" later in this article).

     GCL version 2.2.2 is released under the GNU Library General Public
     License.

   * cook   (SrcCD)

     Cook is a tool for constructing files, and maintaining referential
     integrity between files.  It is given a set of files to create, and
     recipes of how to create and maintain them.  In any non-trivial program
     there will be prerequisites to performing the actions necessary to
     creating any file, such as include files.  The `cook' program provides a
     mechanism to define these.

     Some features which distinguish Cook include a strong procedural
     description language, and fingerprints to supplement file modification
     time stamps.  There is also a `make2cook' utility included to ease
     transition.

   * `cpio'   (SrcCD)

     `cpio' is an archive program with all the features of SVR4 `cpio',
     including support for the final POSIX 1003.1 `ustar' standard.  `mt', a
     program to position magnetic tapes, is included with `cpio'.

   * CVS   (SrcCD)

     CVS is a version control system (like RCS or SCCS) which allows you to
     keep old versions of files (usually source code), keep a log of who,
     when, and why changes occurred, etc.  It handles multiple developers,
     multiple directories, triggers to enable/log/control various operations,
     and can work over a wide area network.  It does not handle build
     management or bug-tracking; these are handled by `make' and GNATS,
     respectively.

   * `cxref'   (SrcCD)

     `cxref' is a program that will produce documentation (in LaTeX or HTML)
     including cross-references from C program source code.  It has been
     designed to work with ANSI C, incorporating K&R, and most popular GNU
     extensions.  The documentation for the subject program is produced from
     comments in the code that are appropriately formatted.  The cross
     referencing comes from the code itself and requires no extra work.

   * DDD   (SrcCD)

     The Data Display Debugger (DDD) is a common graphical user interface to
     GDB, DBX, and XDB, the popular Unix debuggers.  DDD provides a graphical
     data display where complex data structures can be explored incrementally
     and interactively.  DDD has been designed to compete with well-known
     commercial debuggers; as of release 2.1.1, DDD also compiles and runs
     with LessTif, a free Motif clone, without loss of functionality.  For
     more details, see the DDD WWW page at
     `http://www.cs.tu-bs.de/softech/ddd/'.

   * DejaGnu   (SrcCD)

     DejaGnu is a framework to test programs with a single front end for all
     tests.  DejaGnu's flexibility & consistency makes it easy to write tests.
     DejaGnu will also work with remote hosts and embedded systems.

     DejaGnu comes with `expect', which runs scripts to conduct dialogs with
     programs.

   * Diffutils   (SrcCD)

     GNU `diff' compares files showing line-by-line changes in several
     flexible formats.  It is much faster than traditional Unix versions.  The
     Diffutils package has `diff', `diff3', `sdiff', & `cmp'.  Future plans
     include support for internationalization (e.g., error messages in
     Chinese) & some non-Unix PC environments, & a library interface that can
     be used by other free software.

   * DJGPP   *Also see "GCC" below*   (BinCD)

     DJ Delorie has ported GCC/G++ to i386s running DOS.  DJGPP has a 32-bit
     i386 DOS extender with a symbolic debugger, development libraries, &
     ports of Bison, `flex', & Binutils.  Full source code is provided.  It
     needs at least 5MB of hard disk space to install & 512K of RAM to use.
     It supports SVGA (up to 1024x768), XMS & VDISK memory allocation,
     `himem.sys', VCPI (e.g., QEMM, DESQview, & 386MAX), & DPMI (e.g.,
     Windows 3.x, OS/2, QEMM, & QDPMI).  Version 2 was released in Feb. 1996,
     & needs a DPMI environment; a free DPMI server is included.

     WWW at `http://www.delorie.com/djgpp/' or FTP from `ftp.simtel.net' in
     `/pub/simtelnet/gnu/djgpp/' (or a SimTel mirror site).

     Ask `listserv@delorie.com', to join a DJGPP users mailing list.

   * `dld'   (SrcCD)

     `dld' is a dynamic linker written by W. Wilson Ho.  Linking your program
     with the `dld' library allows you to dynamically load object files into
     the running binary.  `dld' supports a.out object types on the following
     platforms: Convex C-Series (BSD), i386/i486/Pentium (GNU/Linux), Sequent
     Symmetry i386 (Dynix 3), Sun-3 (SunOS 3 & 4), Sun-4 (SunOS 4), & VAX
     (Ultrix).

   * `doschk'   (SrcCD)

     This program is a utility to help software developers ensure that their
     source file names are distinguishable on System V platforms with
     14-character filenames and on MS-DOS systems with 8+3 character
     filenames.

   * `ed'   (SrcCD)

     `ed' is the standard text editor.  It is line-oriented and can be used
     interactively or in scripts.

   * Elib   (SrcCD)

     Elib is a small library of Emacs Lisp functions, including routines for
     using AVL trees and doubly-linked lists.

   * Elisp archive   (SrcCD)

     This is a snapshot of Ohio State's GNU Emacs Lisp FTP Archive.  FTP it
     from `archive.cis.ohio-state.edu' in `/pub/gnu/emacs/elisp-archive'.

   * Emacs   *Also *note GNUs Flashes::.*   [FSFman(s), FSFrc]

     In 1975, Richard Stallman developed the first Emacs, an extensible,
     customizable real-time display editor & computing environment.  GNU Emacs
     is his second implementation.  It offers true Lisp--smoothly integrated
     into the editor--for writing extensions & provides an interface to the X
     Window System.  It runs on Unix, MS-DOS, & Windows NT or 95.  In
     addition to its powerful native command set, Emacs can emulate the
     editors vi & EDT (DEC's VMS editor).  Emacs has many other features which
     make it a full computing support environment.  Source for the `GNU Emacs
     Manual' & a reference card comes with the software.  Sources for the
     `GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual', & `Programming in Emacs Lisp: An
     Introduction' are distributed in separate packages.  *Note
     Documentation::.

   * Emacs 20   (SrcCD)   [FSFman(s), FSFrc]

     Emacs 20.1 was just released recently.  Its main new features include
     support for many languages and many character codes (the MULE facility)
     and a new convenient customization feature.  The text-filling commands
     handle indented and bulleted paragraphs conveniently; there are new help
     facilities for looking up documentation about functions and symbols in
     various languages.  A new method of file-locking works even when using
     NFS.  Some dired commands have been made more systematic.

     We believe Emacs 20 operates on the same systems as Emacs 19, but we do
     not have confirmation for all of them.

   * Emacs 19   (SrcCD)   [FSFman(s), FSFrc]

     Emacs 19 works with character-only terminals & with the X Window System
     (with or without an X toolkit).  It also runs on MS-DOS, MS Windows, and
     with multiple-window support on MS Windows 95/NT.

     Emacs 19 works on: Acorn RISC (RISCiX); Alliant FX/2800 (BSD); Alpha
     (OSF/1 or GNU/Linux); Apollo (DomainOS); Bull DPX/2 2nn & 3nn (SysV.3) &
     sps7 (SysV.2); Clipper; Convex (BSD); Cubix QBx (SysV); Data General
     Aviion (DGUX); DEC MIPS (Ultrix 4.2, OSF/1, not VMS); Elxsi 6400 (SysV);
     Gould Power Node & NP1 (4.2 & 4.3BSD); Harris Night Hawk 1200, 3000,
     4000 & 5000 (cxux); Harris Night Hawk Power PC (powerunix); Honeywell
     XPS100 (SysV); HP 9000 series 200, 300, 700, 800 (but not 500) (4.3BSD;
     HP-UX 7, 8, 9; NextStep); Intel i386/i486/Pentium (GNU/Hurd, GNU/Linux,
     386BSD, AIX, BSDI/386, FreeBSD, Esix, ISC, MS-DOS, NetBSD, SCO3.2v4,
     Solaris, SysV, Xenix, WindowsNT, Windows95); IBM RS/6000 (AIX 3.2) &
     RT/PC (AIX, BSD); Motorola Delta 147 & 187 (SysV.3, SysV.4, m88kbcs);
     National Semiconductor 32K (Genix); NeXT (BSD, Mach 2 w/ NeXTStep 3.0);
     Paragon (OSF/1); Prime EXL (SysV); Pyramid (BSD); Sequent Symmetry (BSD,
     ptx); Siemens RM400 & RM600 (SysV); SGI Iris 4D (Irix 4.x & 5.x); Sony
     News/RISC (NewsOS); Stardent i860 (SysV); Sun 3 & 4, SPARC 1, 1+, 2, 10,
     Classic (SunOS 4.0, 4.1, Solaris 2.0-2.3); Tadpole 68k (SysV); Tektronix
     XD88 (SysV.3) & 4300 (BSD); & Titan P2 & P3 (SysV).

   * Emacs 18   (SrcCD)   [FSFrc]

     Emacs 18 is several years old.  We no longer maintain it, but still
     distribute it for those using platforms which Emacs 19 does not support.

   * `enscript'   (SrcCD)

     `enscript' is an upwardly-compatible replacement for the Adobe
     `enscript' program.  It formats ASCII files (outputting in Postscript)
     and stores generated output to a file or sends it directly to the
     printer.

   * `es'   (SrcCD)

     `es' is an extensible shell (based on `rc') with first-class functions,
     lexical scope, exceptions, and rich return values (i.e., functions can
     return values other than just numbers).  `es''s extensibility comes from
     the ability to modify and extend the shell's built-in services, such as
     path searching and redirection.  Like `rc', it is great for both
     interactive use and scripting, particularly since its quoting rules are
     much less baroque than the C and Bourne shells.

   * Exim   (SrcCD)

     Exim is a new Internet mail transfer agent, similar in style to Smail 3.
     It can handle relatively high volume mail systems, header rewriting,
     control over which hosts/nets may use it as a relay, blocking of
     unwanted mail from specified hosts/nets/senders, and multiple local
     domains on one mail host ("virtual domains") with several options for
     the way these are handled.

   * `f2c'   *Also see "Fortran" below & in *Note Forthcoming GNUs::.*  
     (SrcCD)

     `f2c' converts Fortran-77 source into C or C++, which can be compiled
     with GCC or G++.  Get bug fixes by FTP from site `netlib.bell-labs.com'
     or by email from `netlib@netlib.bell-labs.com'.  For a summary, see the
     file `/netlib/f2c/readme.gz'.

   * `ffcall'   (SrcCD)

     `ffcall' is a C library for implementing foreign function calls in
     embedded interpreters by Bill Triggs and Bruno Haible.  It allows C
     functions with arbitrary argument lists and return types to be called or
     emulated (callbacks).

   * Fileutils   (SrcCD)

     The Fileutils are: `chgrp', `chmod', `chown', `cp', `dd', `df', `dir',
     `dircolors', `du', `install', `ln', `ls', `mkdir', `mkfifo', `mknod',
     `mv', `rm', `rmdir', `sync', `touch', & `vdir'.

   * Findutils   (SrcCD)

     `find' is frequently used both interactively and in shell scripts to
     find files which match certain criteria and perform arbitrary operations
     on them.  Also included are `locate', which scans a database for file
     names that match a pattern, and `xargs', which applies a command to a
     list of files.

   * Finger   (SrcCD)

     GNU Finger has more features than other finger programs.  For sites with
     many hosts, a single host may be designated as the finger "server" host
     and other hosts at that site configured as finger "clients".  The server
     host collects information about who is logged in on the clients.  To
     finger a user at a GNU Finger site, a query to any of its client hosts
     gets useful information.  GNU Finger supports many customization
     features, including user output filters and site-programmable output for
     special target names.

   * `flex'   (BinCD, SrcCD)   [FSFman, FSFrc]

     `flex' is a replacement for the `lex' scanner generator.  `flex' was
     written by Vern Paxson of the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory and generates
     far more efficient scanners than `lex' does.  Sources for the `Flex
     Manual' and reference card are included (*note Documentation::.).

   * Fontutils   (SrcCD)

     The Fontutils convert between font formats, create fonts for use with
     Ghostscript or TeX (starting with a scanned type image & converting the
     bitmaps to outlines), etc.  It includes: `bpltobzr', `bzrto',
     `charspace', `fontconvert', `gsrenderfont', `imageto', `imgrotate',
     `limn', & `xbfe'.

   * Fortran (`g77')   *Also *note Forthcoming GNUs::.*   (BinCD, SrcCD)

     GNU Fortran (`g77'), developed by Craig Burley, is available for public
     beta testing on the Internet.  For now, `g77' produces code that is
     mostly object-compatible with `f2c' & uses the same run-time library
     (`libf2c').

   * `gawk'   (SrcCD)   [FSFman]

     `gawk' is upwardly compatible with the latest POSIX specification of
     `awk'.  It also provides several useful extensions not found in other
     `awk' implementations.  Texinfo source for the `The GNU Awk User's
     Guide' comes with the software (*note Documentation::.).

   * `gcal'   (SrcCD)

     `gcal' is a program for printing calendars.  It displays different
     styled calendar sheets, eternal holiday lists, and fixed date warning
     lists.

   * GCC   (BinCD, SrcCD)   [FSFman]

     Version 2 of the GNU C Compiler supports the languages C, C++, and
     Objective-C; the source file name suffix or a compiler option selects
     the language.  (Also see "GNAT" later in this article for Ada language
     supports.) Objective-C support was donated by NeXT.  The runtime support
     needed to run Objective-C programs is now distributed with GCC.  (This
     does not include any Objective-C classes aside from `object', but see
     "GNUstep" in *Note Forthcoming GNUs::.) G++ seeks to be compliant with
     the ANSI C++ language standard.  See
     `http://www.cygnus.com/misc/wp/index.html' for the latest draft.

     GCC is a fairly portable optimizing compiler which performs many
     optimizations.  They include: automatic register allocation, common
     sub-expression elimination (CSE) (including a certain amount of CSE
     between basic blocks - though not all the supported machine descriptions
     provide for scheduling or delay slots), invariant code motion from
     loops, induction variable optimizations, constant propagation, copy
     propagation, delayed popping of function call arguments, tail recursion
     elimination, integration of inline functions & frame pointer elimination,
     instruction scheduling, loop unrolling, filling of delay slots, leaf
     function optimization, optimized multiplication by constants, the
     ability to assign attributes to instructions, & many local optimizations
     automatically deduced from the machine description.

     GCC can open-code most arithmetic on 64-bit values (type `long long
     int').  It supports extended floating point (type `long double') on the
     68k; other machines will follow.  GCC supports full ANSI C, traditional
     C, & GNU C extensions (including: nested functions support, nonlocal
     gotos, & taking the address of a label).

     GCC can generate a.out, COFF, ELF, & OSF-Rose files when used with a
     suitable assembler.  It can produce debugging information in these
     formats: BSD stabs, COFF, ECOFF, ECOFF with stabs, & DWARF.

     GCC generates code for many CPUs, including the a29k, Alpha, ARM, AT&T,
     DSP1610, Clipper, Convex cN, Elxsi, Fujitsu Gmicro, i370, i860, i960,
     MIL-STD-1750a, MIPS, ns32k, PDP-11, Pyramid, ROMP, RS/6000, SH, SPUR,
     Tahoe, VAX, & we32k.

     Position-independent code is generated for the Clipper, Hitachi H8/300,
     HP-PA (1.0 & 1.1), i386/i486/Pentium, m68k, m88k, SPARC, & SPARClite.

     Operating systems supported include: GNU/Hurd, GNU/Linux, ACIS, AIX, AOS,
     BSD, Clix, Concentrix, Ctix, DG/UX, Dynix, FreeBSD, Genix, HP-UX, Irix,
     ISC, Luna, LynxOS, Minix, NetBSD, NewsOS, NeXTStep, OS/2, OSF, OSF-Rose,
     RISCOS, SCO, Solaris 2, SunOS 4, System/370, SysV, Ultrix, Unos, VMS, &
     Windows/NT.

     Using the configuration scheme for GCC, building a cross-compiler is as
     easy as building a native compiler.

     Texinfo source for the `Using and Porting GNU CC' manual is included
     with GCC (*note Documentation::.).

   * GDB   (BinCD, SrcCD)   [FSFman, FSFrc]

     GDB, the GNU DeBugger, is a source-level debugger for C, C++, & Fortran.
     It provides partial support for Modula-2 & Chill.

     GDB can debug both C & C++, & will work with executables made by many
     different compilers; but, C++ debugging will have some limitations if
     you do not use GCC.

     GDB has a command line user interface, and Emacs has GDB mode as an
     interface.  Two X interfaces (not distributed or maintained by the FSF)
     are: `gdbtk' (FTP it from `ftp.cygnus.com' in directory `/pub/gdb'); and
     `xxgdb' (FTP it from `ftp.x.org' in directory `/contrib/utilities').

     Executable files and symbol tables are read via the BFD library, which
     allows a single copy of GDB to debug programs with multiple object file
     formats (e.g., a.out, COFF, ELF).  Other features include a rich command
     language, remote debugging over serial lines or TCP/IP, and watchpoints
     (breakpoints triggered when the value of an expression changes).

     GDB uses a standard remote interface to a simulator library which
     includes simulators for the ARM, Hitachi H8/300, Hitachi SH, & PowerPC.

     GDB can perform cross-debugging.  To say that GDB "targets" a platform
     means it can perform native or cross-debugging for it.  To say that GDB
     can "host" a given platform means that it can be built on it, but cannot
     necessarily debug native programs.

     GDB can:

        * "target" & "host": Amiga 3000 (AmigaOS, Amix, NetBSD), DEC Alpha
          (OSF/1), DECstation 3100 & 5000 (Ultrix), HP 9000/300 (BSD, HP-UX),
          HP 9000/700 (HP-UX 9, 10), i386/i486/Pentium (GNU/Hurd, GNU/Linux,
          BSD, FreeBSD, LynxOS, NetBSD, SCO, Windows NT), IBM RS/6000 (AIX
          3.x, AIX 4.x, LynxOS), Motorola Delta m88k (System V, CX/UX),
          Motorola m68k MVME-167 (LynxOS), NCR 3000 (SVR4), PC532 (NetBSD),
          PowerPC (AIX 4.x, MacOS, Windows NT), SGI (Irix V3, V4, V5), SONY
          News (NewsOS 3.x), SPARC (LynxOS, NetBSD, Solaris 2.x, & SunOS 4.1),
          & Sun-3 (SunOS 4.1).

        * "target", but not "host": AMD 29000, ARM (RDP), Fujitsu SPARClite,
          Hitachi H8/300, Hitachi SH (CMON, SH3, E7000), HP PA Pro (Winbond,
          Oki), i960 (MON960, Nindy, VxWorks), m68k/m68332 (CPU32BUG, EST,
          ROM68K, VxWorks), Matra Sparclet, MIPS (IDT, PMON, VxWorks),
          PowerPC (PPCBug), & Z8000.

        * "host", but not "target": HP/Apollo 68k (BSD), IBM RT/PC (AIX), &
          m68k Apple Macintosh (MacOS).  Sources for the manual,
     `Debugging with GDB', and a reference card are included (*note
     Documentation::.).

   * `gdbm'   (SrcCD)

     `gdbm' is the GNU replacement for the traditional `dbm' and `ndbm'
     libraries.  It implements a database using quick lookup by hashing.
     `gdbm' does not ordinarily make sparse files (unlike its Unix and BSD
     counterparts).

   * Generic NQS   (SrcCD)

     Generic NQS is a network queuing system for spreading batch jobs across a
     network of machines.  It is designed to be simple to install on a
     heterogeneous network of machines, and has optimizations for running on
     the high end, symmetric multiprocessing servers that are currently on the
     market.  It is available for many more Unix variants than any other
     comparable product, and inter-operates with other NQS systems, including
     Cray's NQE.

   * `geomview'   *See* `http://www.geom.umn.edu/software/geomview'   (SrcCD)

     `geomview' is an interactive geometry viewing program, for Unix systems
     with Motif, using X, GL, or OpenGL graphics.  It allows multiple
     independently controllable objects and cameras.  External programs may
     drive desired aspects of the viewer, e.g. loading changing geometry or
     controlling motion, while allowing interactive mouse-and-GUI control of
     everything else.  Controllable features include motion, appearance
     (wireframe, shading, lighting and material properties), mouse-based
     selection, snapshoting (PPM or SGI image, Postscript, and RenderMan
     formats), display in hyperbolic and spherical spaces, and projection
     from higher dimensions.  Includes converters to display Mathematica and
     Maple 3-D graphics, and limited conversion to/from VRML.

   * `gettext'   *Also *note Help the Translation Project::.*   (SrcCD)

     The GNU `gettext' tool set has everything maintainers need to
     internationalize a package's user messages.  Once a package has been
     internationalized, `gettext''s many tools help translators localize
     messages to their native language and automate handling the translation
     files.

   * `gforth'   (SrcCD)

     `gforth' is a fast, portable implementation of the ANS Forth language.

   * Ghostscript   (SrcCD)

     Ghostscript is an interpreter for the Postscript and PDF graphics
     languages.

     The current version of GNU Ghostscript, 3.53, includes a Postscript
     Level 2 interpreter and a PDF 1.1 interpreter (except for encryption).
     Significant new features include the ability to convert PDF to
     Postscript.

     Ghostscript executes commands in the Postscript and PDF languages by
     writing directly to a printer, drawing on an X window, or writing to
     files for printing later or manipulating with other graphics programs.

     Ghostscript includes a C-callable graphics library (for client programs
     that do not want to deal with the Postscript language).  It also runs on
     MS-DOS, MS Windows, OS/2, OpenVMS, and Mac OS (native on both 68K and
     PowerPC) (but please do *not* ask the FSF staff any questions about this;
     we do not use these operating systems).

   * Ghostview   (SrcCD)

     Tim Theisen, `ghostview@cs.wisc.edu', created Ghostview, a previewer for
     multi-page files with an X Window interface.  Ghostview & Ghostscript
     work together; Ghostview creates a viewing window & Ghostscript draws in
     it.

   * GIT   (SrcCD)

     The GNU Interactive Tools package includes: an extensible file system
     browser, an ASCII/hex file viewer, a process viewer/killer, & other
     related utilities & shell scripts.  It can be used to increase the speed
     & efficiency of many daily tasks, such as copying & moving files &
     directories, invoking editors, compressing/uncompressing files, creating
     & expanding archives, compiling programs, sending mail, etc.  It looks
     nice, has colors (if the standard ANSI color sequences are supported), &
     is user-friendly.

   * `gmp'   (SrcCD)

     GNU `mp' is a library for arithmetic on arbitrary precision integers,
     rational numbers, and floating-point numbers.  It has a rich set of
     functions with a regular interface.

     A major new release, version 2, came out in Spring '96.  Compared to
     previous versions, it is much faster, contains lots of new functions, &
     has support for arbitrary precision floating-point numbers.

   * GN   (SrcCD)

     GN is a gopher/HTTP server.

   * Gnans   (SrcCD)

     Gnans is a program (and language) for the numerical study of
     deterministic and stochastic dynamical systems.  The dynamical systems
     may evolve in continuous or discrete time.  Gnans has graphical &
     command line interfaces.

   * GNAT: The GNU Ada Translator   (SrcCD)

     GNAT, a front end for the entire Ada 95 language, including all special
     needs annexes, is available via anonymous FTP from `cs.nyu.edu' and
     various mirror sites in `/pub/gnat'.  SGI, DEC, and Siemens Nixdorf have
     chosen GNU Ada 95 as the Ada compiler for some of their systems.  GNAT
     is maintained by Ada Core Technologies.  For more information, see
     `http://www.gnat.com'.

   * GNATS   (SrcCD)

     GNATS, GNats: A Tracking System, is a bug-tracking system.  It is based
     upon the paradigm of a central site or organization which receives
     problem reports and negotiates their resolution by electronic mail.
     Although it has been used primarily as a software bug-tracking system so
     far, it is sufficiently generalized that it could be used for handling
     system administration issues, project management, or any number of other
     applications.

   * GnuGo   (SrcCD)

     GnuGo plays the game of Go.  It is not yet very sophisticated.

   * GNUMATH (`gnussl')   (SrcCD)

     GNUMATH is a library (`gnussl') that simplifies scientific programming
     in C & C++.  Its focus is on problems that can be solved by a
     straight-forward application of numerical linear algebra.  It also
     handles plotting.  It is in beta release; it is expected to grow more
     versatile & offer a wider scope in time.

   * `gnuplot'   (SrcCD)

     `gnuplot' is an interactive program for plotting mathematical
     expressions and data.  It plots both curves (2 dimensions) & surfaces (3
     dimensions).  It was neither written nor named for the GNU Project; the
     name is a coincidence.  Various GNU programs use `gnuplot'.

   * `gnuserv'   (SrcCD)

     `gnuserv' is an enhanced version of Emacs' `emacsclient' program.  It
     lets the user direct a running Emacs to edit files or evaluate arbitrary
     Emacs Lisp constructs from another process.

   * `gpc'   *Also *note GNUs Flashes::.*   (SrcCD)

     `gpc' is the GNU Pascal Compiler.

   * grep   (SrcCD)

     This package has GNU `grep', `egrep', and `fgrep', which find lines that
     match entered patterns.  They are much faster than the traditional Unix
     versions.

   * Groff   (SrcCD)

     Groff is a document formatting system based on a device-independent
     version of `troff', & includes: `eqn', `nroff', `pic', `refer', `tbl',
     `troff'; the `man', `ms', & `mm' macros; & drivers for Postscript, TeX
     `dvi' format, the LaserJet 4 series of printers, and typewriter-like
     devices.  Groff's `mm' macro package is almost compatible with the DWB
     `mm' macros with several extensions.  Also included is a modified
     version of the Berkeley `me' macros and an enhanced version of the X11
     `xditview' previewer.  Written in C++, these programs can be compiled
     with GNU C++ Version 2.7.2 or later.

     Groff users are encouraged to contribute enhancements.  Most needed are
     complete Texinfo documentation, a `grap' emulation (a `pic' preprocessor
     for typesetting graphs), a page-makeup postprocessor similar to `pm'
     (see `Computing Systems', Vol. 2, No. 2; ask `office@usenix.org' how to
     get a copy), and an ASCII output class for `pic' to integrate `pic' with
     Texinfo.  Questions and bug reports from users who have read the
     documentation provided with Groff can be sent to
     `bug-groff@prep.ai.mit.edu'.

   * `guavac'   (SrcCD)

     `guavac' is a new free compiler for the Java language.

   * GUILE   *Also *note GNUs Flashes::.*   (SrcCD)

     GUILE is GNU's Ubiquitous Intelligent Language for Extension, an
     interpreter for the Scheme programming language, packaged as a library
     that you can link into your programs to make them extensible.

   * `gzip'   (BinCD, SrcCD)

     `gzip' can expand LZW-compressed files but uses another, unpatented
     algorithm for compression which generally produces better results.  It
     also expands files compressed with System V's `pack' program.

   * `hello'   (SrcCD)

     The GNU `hello' program produces a familiar, friendly greeting.  It
     allows non-programmers to use a classic computer science tool which would
     otherwise be unavailable to them.  Because it is protected by the GNU
     General Public License, users are free to share and change it.  `hello'
     is also a good example of a program that meets the GNU coding standards.
     Like any truly useful program, `hello' contains a built-in mail reader.

   * `hp2xx'   (SrcCD)

     GNU `hp2xx' reads HP-GL files, decomposes all drawing commands into
     elementary vectors, and converts them into a variety of vector and raster
     output formats.  It is also an HP-GL previewer.  Currently supported
     vector formats include encapsulated Postscript, Uniplex RGIP, Metafont,
     various special TeX-related formats, and simplified HP-GL (line drawing
     only) for imports.  Raster formats supported include IMG, PBM, PCX, &
     HP-PCL (including Deskjet & DJ5xxC support).  Previewers work under X11
     (Unix), OS/2 (PM & full screen), & MS-DOS (SVGA, VGA, & HGC).

   * HylaFAX   *Also see* `http://www.vix.com/hylafax/'   (SrcCD)

     HylaFAX (once named FlexFAX) is a facsimile system for Unix systems.  It
     supports sending, receiving, & polled retrieval of facsimile, as well as
     transparent shared data use of the modem.

   * Hyperbole   (SrcCD)

     Hyperbole, written by Bob Weiner in Emacs Lisp, is an open, efficient,
     programmable information management, autonumbered outliner, & hypertext
     system, intended for everyday work on any platform Emacs runs on.

   * ID Utils   (SrcCD)

     ID Utils is a package of simple, fast, high-capacity,
     language-independent tools that index program identifiers, literal
     numbers, or words of human-readable text.  Queries can be issued from
     the command-line, or from within Emacs, serving as an augmented tags
     facility.

   * `indent'   (SrcCD)

     GNU `indent' formats C source code into the GNU, BSD, K&R, or your own
     special indentation style.  GNU `indent' is more robust & provides more
     functionality than other such programs, including handling C++ comments.
     It runs on Unix, Windows, VMS, ATARI and other systems.

     The next version which formats C++ source code will soon be released.

   * Inetutils   (SrcCD)

     Inetutils has common networking utilities & servers.

     Version 1.3a is more portable than previous releases: Inetutils now
     works on GNU/Linux and SunOS/Solaris systems, although it still requires
     a system with some degree of BSD compatibility.  This release also has
     many security holes plugged.

   * Ispell   (SrcCD)

     Ispell is an interactive spell checker that suggests "near misses" to
     replace unrecognized words.  System & user-maintained dictionaries for
     multiple languages can be used.  Standalone & Emacs interfaces are
     available.

   * JACAL   *Not available from the FSF except by FTP*

     JACAL is a symbolic mathematics system for the manipulation &
     simplification of algebraic expressions & equations.

     The FSF is not distributing JACAL on any physical media.  You can FTP it,
     or visit the Web site `http://www-swiss.ai.mit.edu/~jaffer/JACAL.html'.

   * jargon   (SrcCD)

     The jargon file is the online version of `The New Hacker's Dictionary'.

   * Karma   (SrcCD)

     Karma is a signal and image processing library and visualization toolkit
     that provides interprocess communications, authentication, graphics
     display, and user interface to and manipulation of the Karma network
     data structure.  Several foreign data formats are also supported.  Karma
     comes packaged with a number of generic visualization tools and some
     astronomy-specific tools.

   * `less'   (SrcCD)

     `less' is a display paginator similar to `more' and `pg', but with
     various features (such as the ability to scroll backwards) that most
     pagers lack.

   * LessTif   (SrcCD)

     LessTif is a free clone of Motif.

   * Libtool   (SrcCD)

     GNU libtool is a generic library support script which manages the
     complexity of building and linking against shared libraries.  Libtool
     allows source code package maintainers to easily add shared library
     support without breaking static-only platform compatibility.

     Libtool supports building static libraries on all known platforms.
     Shared library support has been implemented for several platforms.

   * Lynx   *Also see* `http://lynx.browser.org'  (SrcCD)

     Lynx is a text-only World Wide Web browser for those running
     character-only ("cursor-addressable") terminals or terminal emulators.

   * `m4'   (SrcCD)

     GNU `m4' is an implementation of the traditional Unix macro processor.
     It is mostly SVR4 compatible, although it has some extensions (e.g.,
     handling more than 9 positional parameters to macros).  `m4' also has
     built-in functions for including files, running shell commands, doing
     arithmetic, etc.

   * `make'   (BinCD, SrcCD)   [FSFman]

     GNU `make' supports POSIX 1003.2 and has all but a few obscure features
     of the BSD and System V versions of `make', and runs on MS-DOS,
     AmigaDOS, VMS, & Windows NT or 95, as well as all Unix-compatible
     systems.  GNU extensions include long options, parallel compilation,
     flexible implicit pattern rules, conditional execution, & powerful text
     manipulation functions.  Source for the `Make Manual' comes with the
     program (*note Documentation::.).

   * MandelSpawn   (SrcCD)

     A parallel Mandelbrot generation program for the X Window System.

   * Maxima   (SrcCD)

     Maxima is a Common Lisp implementation of MIT's Macsyma system for
     computer based algebra.

   * MCSim   (SrcCD)

     MCSim is a general purpose modeling and simulation program which also
     performs standard or Markov chain Monte Carlo simulations.  It allows
     you to specify a set of linear or nonlinear equations (eventually
     differential), and solve them using parameter values you choose or
     parameter values sampled from specified statistical distributions.
     Simulation outputs can be compared to experimental data for parameter
     estimation.

   * Meta-HTML   (SrcCD)

     <Meta-HTML> is a programming language specifically designed for working
     within the World Wide Web environment.  Although it is a genuine
     programming language, suitable for large-scale symbolic manipulation, it
     provides the most commonly wanted Web functionality as built-in
     primitives, so you don't have to write them.

   * Midnight Commander (`mc')   (SrcCD)

     The Midnight Commander is a user friendly & colorful Unix file manager &
     shell, useful to novice & guru alike.  It has a built-in virtual file
     system that manipulates files inside tar files or files on remote
     machines using the FTP protocol.  This mechanism is extensible with
     external Unix programs.

   * Miscellaneous Files Distribution   (SrcCD)

     The GNU Miscellaneous Files are non-crucial files that are common on
     various systems, including word lists, airport codes, ZIP codes etc.

   * `mkisofs'   (SrcCD)

     `mkisofs' is a pre-mastering program to generate an ISO 9660 file system.
     It takes a snapshot of a directory tree, and makes a binary image which
     corresponds to an ISO 9660 file system when written to a block device.

     It can also generate the System Use Sharing Protocol records of the Rock
     Ridge Interchange Protocol (used to further describe the files in an ISO
     9660 file system to a Unix host; it provides information such as longer
     filenames, uid/gid, permissions, and device nodes).

     The `mkisofs' program is often used with `cdwrite'.  The `cdwrite'
     program works by taking the image that `mkisofs' generates and driving a
     cdwriter drive to actually burn the disk.  `cdwrite' works under
     GNU/Linux, and supports popular cdwriter drives.  Older versions of
     `cdwrite' were included with older versions of `mkisofs';
     `sunsite.unc.edu' has the latest version:
     `/pub/Linux/utils/disk-management/cdwrite-2.0.tar.gz'.

   * `mtools'   (SrcCD)

     `mtools' is a collection of utilities to access MS-DOS disks from Unix
     without mounting them.  It supports Windows 95 style long file names,
     OS/2 Xdf disks, ZIP/JAZ disks and 2m disks (store up to 1992k on a high
     density 3 1/2 disk).

   * MULE   *Also *note GNUs Flashes::.*   (SrcCD)

     MULE is a MULtilingual Enhancement to GNU Emacs.  MULE text buffers can
     contain a mix of characters from many languages including: Japanese,
     Chinese, Korean, Vietnamese, Thai, modern European languages (including
     Greek & Russian), Arabic, & Hebrew.  MULE also provides input methods
     for all of them.  *Note GNU & Other Free Software in Japan::, for more
     information about MULE.

     The version 20 release of Emacs includes the MULE features, making MULE
     itself obsolete.

   * `mutt'   *Also see* `http://www.cs.hmc.edu/~me/mutt'   (SrcCD)

     Mutt is a small but very powerful mail client: a hybrid, or "mutt,"
     consisting of features from various other curses-based e-mail clients.

   * NetHack   (SrcCD)

     NetHack is a display-oriented adventure game similar to Rogue.  ASCII,
     X11, and various PC based GUI displays are supported.

     NetHack runs on GNU/Linux, Amiga, Atari, BeBox, Mac, MS Windows, MS-DOS,
     OS/2, Unix, VMS, and Windows NT.

     The current release of NetHack is 3.2.2.  Bug reports concerning NetHack
     should be sent to `nethack-bugs@linc.cis.upenn.edu'.

   * NIH Class Library   (SrcCD)

     The NIH Class Library is a set of C++ classes (similar to
     Smalltalk-80's) written in C++ by Keith Gorlen of the National Institutes
     of Health (NIH).

   * `nvi'   (SrcCD)

     `nvi' is an implementation of the `ex'/`vi' Unix editor.  It has all the
     functionality of the original `ex'/`vi', except `open' mode & the `lisp'
     edit option.  Enhancements include multiple buffers, command-line
     editing & path completion, integrated Perl5 & Tcl scripting languages,
     Cscope support & tag stacks, 8-bit data support, infinite file/line
     lengths, infinite undo, language catalogs, incremental search, extended
     regular expressions, and security fixes.  It uses Autoconf for
     configuration and runs on any Unix-like system.

   * Oaklisp   (SrcCD)

     Oaklisp is a fast, portable, object-oriented Scheme with first class
     types.

   * Objective-C Library   (SrcCD)

     Our Objective-C Class Library (`gstep-base.tar.gz', `libgnustep-base')
     has general-purpose, non-graphical Objective-C objects written by Andrew
     McCallum & others.  It includes collection classes for maintaining
     groups of objects, I/O streams, coders for formatting objects & C types
     to streams, ports for network packet transmission, distributed objects
     (remote object messaging), string classes, invocations, notifications,
     event loops, timers, exceptions, pseudo-random number generators, &
     more.  It has the base classes for the GNUstep project; all but a few of
     them have already been written.  Send queries & bugs to
     `mccallum@gnu.ai.mit.edu'.  See "GNUstep" in *Note Forthcoming GNUs::.

   * OBST   (SrcCD)

     OBST is a persistent object management system with bindings to C++.
     OBST supports incremental loading of methods.  Its graphical tools
     require the X Window System.  It features a hands-on tutorial including
     sample programs.  It compiles with G++, and should install easily on
     most Unix platforms.

   * Octave   *Also see* `http://www.che.wisc.edu/octave'   (SrcCD)

     Octave does arithmetic for real and complex scalars and matrices, solves
     sets of nonlinear algebraic equations, integrates systems of ordinary
     differential & differential-algebraic equations, and integrates
     functions over finite & infinite intervals.  Two- & three-dimensional
     plotting is available using `gnuplot'.

     Version 2.0.9 of Octave was released in July.  It includes support for
     dynamically linked functions, user-defined data types, many new
     functions, & a completely revised manual.  Octave works on most Unix
     systems, OS/2, and Windows NT/95.

   * Oleo   (SrcCD)

     Oleo is a spreadsheet program (better for you than the more expensive
     spreadsheets).  It supports the X Window System and character-based
     terminals, and can output Embedded Postscript renditions of spreadsheets.
     Keybindings should be familiar to Emacs users and are configurable.
     Oleo supports multiple variable-width fonts when used under the X Window
     System or outputting to Postscript devices.

   * `p2c'   (SrcCD)

     `p2c' is Dave Gillespie's Pascal-to-C translator.  It inputs many
     dialects (HP, ISO, Turbo, VAX, etc.)  & generates readable,
     maintainable, portable C.

   * `patch'   (SrcCD)

     `patch' applies `diff''s output to a set of original files to generate
     the modified versions.  Recent versions of GNU `patch' can update binary
     files, and can remove files and directories when they become obsolete.

   * PCL   (SrcCD)

     PCL is a free implementation of a large subset of CLOS, the Common Lisp
     Object System.  It runs under both GCL and CLISP, mentioned above.

   * `perl'   (SrcCD)

     Larry Wall's `perl' combines the features & capabilities of C, `sed',
     `awk', & `sh', and provides interfaces to the Unix system calls & many C
     library routines.

   * `phttpd'    (SrcCD)

     `phttpd' is a high speed World Wide Web server using multithreading,
     memory mapping, and dynamic linking to achieve its goals of high speed,
     scalability, and light weight.  It is currently supported only on
     Solaris (SunOS5).

   * plotutils   (SrcCD)

     The GNU plotutils (plotting utilities) package includes `libplot', a
     subroutine library for producing 2-D device-independent vector graphics,
     and `graph', a sample application for plotting 2-D scientific data that
     is built on top of `libplot'.  Supported devices include X Window System
     displays, Postscript devices, and Tektronix emulators.  `xfig' output
     format, which can be edited with the free graphics editor `xfig', is
     also supported.  The Postscript output format includes directives which
     allow it to be edited with the `idraw' graphics editor.  Included with
     `graph' are `spline', a program that uses splines in tension to
     interpolate data, and `ode', an application that will numerically
     integrate a system of ordinary differential equations.

   * PRCS   (SrcCD)

     PRCS, the Project Revision Control System, is a version control program
     with purpose similar to that of CVS.  It was designed with simplicity in
     mind.  Like CVS, PRCS uses RCS to accomplish this task, but this is
     inconsequential to the user, as RCS is completely hidden beneath a layer
     of abstraction.

   * `ptx'   (SrcCD)

     GNU `ptx' is our version of the traditional permuted index generator.
     It handles multiple input files at once, has TeX compatible output, &
     outputs readable "KWIC" (KeyWords In Context) indexes without using
     `nroff'.  Plans are to merge this package into `textutils'.

     It does not yet handle input files that do not fit in memory all at once.

   * `rc'   (SrcCD)

     `rc' is a shell that features a C-like syntax (much more so than `csh')
     and far cleaner quoting rules than the C or Bourne shells.  It's
     intended to be used interactively, but is also great for writing
     scripts.  It inspired the shell `es'.

   * RCS   (SrcCD)

     RCS, the Revision Control System, is used for version control &
     management of software projects.  Used with GNU `diff', RCS can handle
     binary files (8-bit data, executables, object files, etc).  RCS now
     conforms to GNU configuration standards & to POSIX 1003.1b-1993.  Also
     see the CVS item above.

   * `readline'   (BinCD, SrcCD)

     Brian Fox wrote the `readline' library one weekend in 1987, so that the
     FSF would have a clean Emacs-like line editing facility that could be
     used across multiple programs.  After installing it in Bash, he went on
     to test the reusability of the code by adding it to GDB, and then later,
     to the GNU FTP client.  The library supplies many entry points--the
     simplest interface gives any program the ability to store a history of
     input lines, and gives the end user a complete Emacs-like (or vi-like)
     editing capability over the input, simply by replacing calls to `gets'
     with calls to `readline'.

   * `recode'   *Also *note Forthcoming GNUs::.*   (SrcCD)

     GNU `recode' converts files between character sets and usages.  When
     exact transliterations are not possible, it may delete the offending
     characters or fall back on approximations.  This program recognizes or
     outputs nearly 150 different character sets and is able to transliterate
     files between almost any pair.  Most RFC 1345 character sets are
     supported.

   * `regex'   (SrcCD)

     The GNU regular expression library supports POSIX.2, except for
     internationalization features.  It is included in many GNU programs which
     do regular expression matching & is available separately.  An alternate
     regular expression package, `rx', is faster than `regex' in many cases;
     we were planning to replace `regex' with `rx', but it is not certain
     this will happen.

   * Roxen   (SrcCD)

     Roxen is a modularized, object-oriented, non-forking World Wide Web
     server with high performance and throughput, and capabilities for on the
     fly image generation (`http://www.roxen.com').  It was formerly named
     Spinner, but was renamed for trademark reasons.

   * `rsync'   (SrcCD)

     `rsync' is a replacement for `rcp' that has many more features.  `rsync'
     uses the "rsync algorithm", which provides a very fast method for
     synchronizing large remote files, sending only the differences across
     the link.  It does not require both versions of a file to be local in
     order to compute the differences.  A technical report describing the
     rsync algorithm is included with the package.

   * `rx'   (SrcCD)

     Tom Lord has written `rx', a new regular expression library which is
     generally faster and more correct than the older GNU `regex' library.

   * SAOimage   (SrcCD)

     SAOimage is an X-based astronomical image viewer.  It reads array data
     images, which may be in specific formats, and displays them with a
     pseudocolor colormap.  There is full interactive control of the
     colormap, panning and zooming, graphical annotation, and cursor tracking
     in pixel and sky coordinates, among other features.

   * `screen'   (SrcCD)

     `screen' is a terminal multiplexer that runs several separate "screens"
     (ttys) on a single character-based terminal.  Each virtual terminal
     emulates a DEC VT100 plus several ISO 2022 and ISO 6429 (ECMA 48, ANSI
     X3.64) functions, including color.  Arbitrary keyboard input translation
     is also supported.  `screen' sessions can be detached and resumed later
     on a different terminal type.  Output in detached sessions is saved for
     later viewing.

   * `sed'   (SrcCD)

     `sed' is a stream-oriented version of `ed'.  It comes with the `rx'
     library.

   * Sharutils   (SrcCD)

     `shar' makes so-called shell archives out of many files, preparing them
     for transmission by electronic mail services; `unshar' helps unpack
     these shell archives after reception.  `uuencode' and `uudecode' are
     POSIX compliant implementations of a pair of programs which transform
     files into a format that can be safely transmitted across a 7-bit ASCII
     link.

   * Shellutils   (SrcCD)

     The Shellutils are: `basename', `chroot', `date', `dirname', `echo',
     `env', `expr', `factor', `false', `groups', `hostname', `id', `logname',
     `nice', `nohup', `pathchk', `printenv', `printf', `pwd', `seq', `sleep',
     `stty', `su', `tee', `test', `true', `tty', `uname', `uptime', `users',
     `who', `whoami', & `yes'.

   * Shogi   (SrcCD)

     Shogi is a Japanese game similar to Chess; a major difference is that
     captured pieces can be returned into play.

     GNU Shogi is a variant of GNU Chess; it implements the same features &
     similar heuristics.  As a new feature, sequences of partial board
     patterns can be introduced to help the program play toward specific
     opening patterns.  It has both character and X display interfaces.

     It is primarily supported by Matthias Mutz on behalf of the FSF.

   * SIPP   (SrcCD)

     SIPP is a library for photorealistically rendering 3D scenes.  Scenes can
     be illuminated by an arbitrary number of light sources; they are built up
     of object hierarchies, with arbitrarily many subobjects and subsurfaces.
     Surfaces can be rendered with either Phong, Gouraud, or flat shading.
     The library supports programmable shaders and texture mapping.

   * Smail   (SrcCD)

     Smail is a mail transport system, designed as a compatible drop-in
     replacement for `sendmail'.  It uses a much simpler configuration format
     than `sendmail' and is designed to be setup with minimal effort.

   * Smalltalk   (SrcCD)

     GNU Smalltalk is an interpreted object-oriented programming language
     system written in highly portable C.  It has been ported to MS-DOS, many
     Unixes, & other OSes.  Features include a binary image save capability,
     the ability to call user-written C code with parameters, an Emacs
     editing mode, a version of the X protocol invocable from Smalltalk,
     optional byte-code compilation and/or execution tracing, & automatically
     loaded per-user initialization files.  It implements all of the classes
     & protocol in the book "Smalltalk-80: The Language", except for the
     graphic user interface (GUI) related classes.

   * SNePS   (SrcCD)

     SNePS is the Semantic Network Processing System.  It is an
     implementation of a fully intensional theory of propositional knowledge
     representation and reasoning.  SNePS runs under CLISP or GCL.

   * `spell'   (SrcCD)

     GNU `spell' is a clone of standard Unix `spell', implemented as a
     wrapper to `ispell'.

   * `stow'   (SrcCD)

     `stow' manages the installation of multiple software packages, keeping
     them separate while making them appear (via symbolic links) to be
     installed in the same place.  For example, Emacs can be installed in
     `/usr/local/stow/emacs' and Perl in `/usr/local/stow/perl', permitting
     each to be administered separately, while with `stow' they will both
     appear to be installed in `/usr/local'.

   * Superopt   (SrcCD)

     Superopt is a function sequence generator that uses an exhaustive
     generate-and-test approach to find the shortest instruction sequence for
     a given function.  You provide a function as input, a CPU to generate
     code for, and how many instructions you want.  Its use in GCC is
     described in the `ACM SIGPLAN PLDI'92 Proceedings'.  It supports: SPARC,
     m68k, m68020, m88k, IBM POWER and PowerPC, AMD 29k, Intel x86 & 960,
     Pyramid, DEC Alpha, Hitachi SH, & HP-PA.

   * Swarm   (SrcCD)

     Swarm is a software package for multi-agent simulation of complex systems
     being developed at The Santa Fe Institute.  Swarm is intended to be a
     useful tool for researchers in a variety of disciplines, especially
     artificial life.  The basic architecture of Swarm is the simulation of
     collections of concurrently interacting agents: with this architecture,
     a large variety of agent based models can be implemented.

   * `tar'   (BinCD, SrcCD)

     GNU `tar' includes multi-volume support, the ability to archive sparse
     files, compression/decompression, remote archives, and special features
     that allow `tar' to be used for incremental and full backups.  GNU `tar'
     uses an early draft of the POSIX 1003.1 `ustar' format which is
     different from the final version.  This will be corrected in the future.

   * Termcap Library   (SrcCD)   [FSFman]

     The GNU Termcap library is a drop-in replacement for `libtermcap.a' on
     any system.  It does not place an arbitrary limit on the size of Termcap
     entries, unlike most other Termcap libraries.  Included is source for the
     `Termcap Manual' in Texinfo format (*note Documentation::.).

   * Termutils   (SrcCD)

     The Termutils package contains programs for controlling terminals.
     `tput' is a portable way for shell scripts to use special terminal
     capabilities.  `tabs' is a program to set hardware terminal tab settings.

   * TeX   (SrcCD)

     TeX is a document formatter that is used, among other things, by the FSF
     for all its printed documentation.  You will need it if you want to make
     printed manuals.  See `http://www.tug.org/web2c/'.

     The Source Code CD-ROM contains a minimal TeX collection, sufficient to
     process Texinfo files.  For a complete TeX distribution, including both
     sources and precompiled binaries for many platforms, consider teTeX.
     This is available on CD-ROM (see `http://www.tug.org/texlive.html'), or
     by FTP.  The FTP instructions change too frequently to include them here;
     see `ftp://ftp.tug.org/tex/unixtex.ftp'.

   * Texinfo   (SrcCD)   [FSFman]

     Texinfo is a set of utilities (`makeinfo', `info', `install-info',
     `texi2dvi', `texindex', & `texinfmt.el') which generate printed manuals,
     plain ASCII text, & online hypertext documentation (called "Info"), &
     can read online Info documents; Info files can also be read in Emacs.
     Version 3 has both Emacs Lisp & standalone programs written in C or as
     shell scripts.  Texinfo mode for Emacs enables easy editing & updating
     of Texinfo files.  Source for the `Texinfo Manual' is included (*note
     Documentation::.).

   * Textutils   (SrcCD)

     The Textutils programs manipulate textual data.  They include: `cat',
     `cksum', `comm', `csplit', `cut', `expand', `fmt', `fold', `head',
     `join', `md5sum', `nl', `od', `paste', `pr', `sort', `split', `sum',
     `tac', `tail', `tr', `unexpand', `uniq', and `wc'.

   * TIFF library   (SrcCD)

     The TIFF library, `libtiff', is a library for manipulating Tagged Image
     File Format files, a commonly used bitmap graphics format.

   * Tile Forth   (SrcCD)

     Tile Forth is a 32-bit implementation of the Forth-83 standard written
     in C, allowing it to be easily ported to new systems & extended with any
     C-function (graphics, windowing, etc).

     Many documented Forth libraries are available, e.g. top-down parsing,
     multi-threads, & object-oriented programming.

   * `time'   (SrcCD)

     `time' reports (usually from a shell) the user, system, & real time used
     by a process.  On some systems it also reports memory usage, page
     faults, etc.

   * `ucblogo'   (SrcCD)

     `ucblogo' implements the classic teaching language, Logo.

   * `units'

     GNU `units' converts between different units of measurement, such as
     miles/gallon to km/liter.  (It can only handle multiplicative scale
     changes, so it cannot convert Celsius to Fahrenheit though it could
     convert temperature differences between those temperatures scales.)

   * UUCP   (SrcCD)

     GNU's UUCP system (written by Ian Lance Taylor) supports the `f', `g'
     (all window & packet sizes), `v', `G', `t', `e', Zmodem, & two new
     bidirectional (`i' & `j') protocols.  With a BSD sockets library, it can
     make TCP connections.  With TLI libraries, it can make TLI connections.
     Source is included for a manual (not yet published by the FSF).

   * vera   (SrcCD)

     VERA (Virtual Entity of Relevant Acronyms) is a document listing
     thousands of acronyms of the computer field.

   * viewfax   (SrcCD)

     Viewfax is a tool for displaying fax files on an X display.  It can
     display raw, digifax or tiff/f files, such as those received by HylaFAX.

   * W3   (SrcCD)

     W3 (written by William Perry in Emacs Lisp) is an extensible, advanced
     World Wide Web browser that runs as part of Emacs.  It supports all the
     bells and whistles you find on the Web today, including frames, tables,
     stylesheets, and much more.  See
     `http://www.cs.indiana.edu/elisp/w3/docs.html'.

   * `wdiff'   (SrcCD)

     `wdiff' is a front-end to GNU `diff'.  It compares two files, finding
     the words deleted or added to the first to make the second.  It has many
     output formats and works well with terminals and pagers.  `wdiff' is
     very useful when two texts differ only by a few words and paragraphs
     have been refilled.  Plans are to merge this package into `diffutils'.

   * `Wget'   (SrcCD)

     `Wget' non-interactively retrieves files from the WWW using HTTP & FTP.
     It is suitable for use in shell scripts.

   * `windows32api'   (SrcCD)

     `windows32' is a set of header files & import libraries that can be used
     by GNU tools for compiling & linking programs to be run on Windows NT/95.

   * WN   (SrcCD)

     WN is a World Wide Web server designed to be secure and flexible.  It
     offers many different capabilities in pre-parsing files before passing
     them to the client, and has a very different design from Apache and the
     NCSA server.

   * X11   (SrcCD)

     We distribute Version 11, Release 6.3 of the X Window System with the
     latest patches & bug fixes.  X11 includes all of the core software,
     documentation, contributed clients, libraries, & toolkits, games, etc.

     While supplies last, we will distribute X11R5 on the November 1993
     Source Code CD-ROM.

   * `xboard'   (SrcCD)

     `xboard' is a graphical chessboard for X Windows.  It can serve as a
     user interface to the Crafty or GNU chess programs, the Internet Chess
     Servers, e-mail correspondence chess, or games saved in Portable Game
     Notation.

   * `xgrabsc'   (SrcCD)

     `xgrabsc' is a screen capture program similar to `xwd' but with a
     graphical user interface, more ways of selecting the part of the screen
     to capture, & different types of output: Postscript, color Postscript,
     xwd, bitmap, pixmap, & puzzle.

   * `xinfo'   (SrcCD)

     `xinfo' is an X-windows program for reading Info files.  It uses a
     special widget, which is available for use in other programs.

   * xmcd   *Also see* `http://sunsite.unc.edu/~cddb/xmcd/'   (SrcCD)

     `xmcd' is an X11-based CD player utility and `cda' is a command-line
     driven, non-graphical CD audio player.  `xmcd' is developed to use the
     OSF/Motif API (version 1.1 and later) and can also be used with LessTif,
     the free Motif clone.

     In its evolution over the past few years, `xmcd' has established itself
     as the premier CD player application for the X window system with an
     attractive, easy-to-use user interface.  It is feature-rich and runs on
     virtually all of the popular Unix and OpenVMS platforms.  It also
     supports the widest array of CD-ROM and CD-R devices, including some
     older SCSI-1 drives that do not work with other CD player applications.
     The remote CD database query feature fully utilizes the Internet and
     taps on a vast repository of CD artists/titles, track titles and other
     information.  Multi-disc changers are also supported.

     Like many other CD player applications, `xmcd' supports a CD database of
     disc and track titles and other information.  A distinguishing feature
     of `xmcd' is the ability to connect to a remote CD database server to
     query this information.  Many public Internet CD database servers have
     been established around the world for this purpose, and `xmcd' also
     allows the user to submit new CD entries to the master database.

   * `xshogi'   (SrcCD)

     `xshogi' is a graphical Shogi (Japanese Chess) board for the X Window
     System.  It can serve as a user interface to GNU Shogi, as a referee for
     games between two humans, or as a client for the Internet Shogi Server.

   * `Ygl'   (SrcCD)

     `Ygl' emulates a subset of SGI's GL (Graphics Language) library under
     X11 on most platforms with an ANSI C compiler (including GCC).  It has
     most two-dimensional graphics routines, the queue device & query
     routines, double buffering, RGB mode with dithering, Fortran bindings,
     etc.

   * zlibc   (SrcCD)

     Zlibc is an uncompressing C library for GNU/Linux and SunOS systems.  It
     is a preloadable shared object that allows executables to uncompress the
     datafiles that they need on the fly.  No kernel patch, no recompilation
     of these executables and no recompilation of the libraries is needed;
     the package overrides the `open' function (and other system call
     functions) in the shared library.

 

Program/Package Cross Reference
*******************************

Here is a list of the package each GNU program or library is in.  You can FTP
the current list in the file `/pub/gnu/ProgramIndex' from a GNU FTP host
(*note How to Get GNU Software::.).

        * 4dview geomview
     
        * a2p perl
        * a2x xopt
        * ac bsd44
        * accton bsd44
        * ackpfd phttpd
        * acl bsd44
        * acm acm
        * acms acm
        * addbbox geomview
        * addftinfo Groff
        * adventure bsd44
        * afm2tfm TeX
        * aid ID Utils
        * amd bsd44
        * ansitape bsd44
        * AnswerGarden xopt
        * apply bsd44
        * appres xreq
        * apropos bsd44
        * ar Binutils
        * arithmetic bsd44
        * arp bsd44
        * atc bsd44
        * authwn WN
        * autoconf Autoconf
        * autoheader Autoconf
        * automake Automake
        * autoreconf Autoconf
        * autoscan Autoconf
        * autoupdate Autoconf
        * auto_box xopt
        * auto_box xreq
     
        * b2m Emacs
        * backgammon bsd44
        * bad144 bsd44
        * badsect bsd44
        * banner bsd44
        * basename Shellutils
        * bash BASH
        * battlestar bsd44
        * bc bc
        * bcd bsd44
        * bdes bsd44
        * bdftops Ghostscript
        * beach_ball xopt
        * beach_ball xreq
        * beach_ball2 xopt
        * bibtex TeX
        * biff bsd44
        * bison Bison
        * bitmap xreq
        * boggle bsd44
        * bpltobzr Fontutils
        * bugfiler bsd44
        * buildhash Ispell
        * bzrto Fontutils
     
        * c++ GCC
        * c++filt Binutils
        * c2ph perl
        * ca100 xopt
        * caesar bsd44
        * cal bsd44
        * calendar bsd44
        * canfield bsd44
        * cat Textutils
        * cbars wdiff
        * cc GCC
        * cc1 GCC
        * cc1obj GCC
        * cc1plus GCC
        * cccp GCC
        * cdwrite mkisofs
        * cfengine cfengine
        * cgi Spinner
        * charspace Fontutils
        * checknr bsd44
        * chess bsd44
        * chflags bsd44
        * chgrp Fileutils
        * ching bsd44
        * chmod Fileutils
        * chown Fileutils
        * chpass bsd44
        * chroot bsd44
        * ci RCS
        * cksum Textutils
        * cktyps g77
        * clisp CLISP
        * clri bsd44
        * cmail xboard
        * cmmf TeX
        * cmodext xopt
        * cmp Diffutils
        * co RCS
        * col bsd44
        * colcrt bsd44
        * colrm bsd44
        * column bsd44
        * comm Textutils
        * compress bsd44
        * comsat bsd44
        * connectd bsd44
        * cp Fileutils
        * cpicker xopt
        * cpio cpio
        * cpp GCC
        * cppstdin perl
        * cribbage bsd44
        * crock xopt
        * csh bsd44
        * csplit Textutils
        * ctags Emacs
        * ctwm xopt
        * cu UUCP
        * cut Textutils
        * cvs CVS
        * cvscheck CVS
        * cvtmail Emacs
        * cxterm xopt
     
        * d Fileutils
        * date Shellutils
        * dc bc
        * dd Fileutils
        * ddd DDD
        * defid ID Utils
        * delatex TeX
        * demangle Binutils
        * descend CVS
        * detex TeX
        * df Fileutils
        * dhtppd phttpd
        * diff Diffutils
        * diff3 Diffutils
        * diffpp enscript
        * digest-doc Emacs
        * dipress bsd44
        * dir Fileutils
        * dircolors Fileutils
        * dirname Shellutils
        * dish xopt
        * disklabel bsd44
        * diskpart bsd44
        * dld dld
        * dm bsd44
        * dmesg bsd44
        * doschk doschk
        * dox xopt
        * du Fileutils
        * dump bsd44
        * dump mkisofs
        * dumpfs bsd44
        * dvi2tty TeX
        * dvicopy TeX
        * dvips TeX
        * dvitype TeX
     
        * ecc ecc
        * echo Shellutils
        * ed ed
        * edit-pr GNATS
        * editres xreq
        * edquota bsd44
        * eeprom bsd44
        * egrep grep
        * eid ID Utils
        * emacs Emacs
        * emacsclient Emacs
        * emacsserver Emacs
        * emacstool Emacs
        * emu xopt
        * enscript enscript
        * env Shellutils
        * eqn Groff
        * error bsd44
        * es es
        * esdebug es
        * etags Emacs
        * ex nvi
        * example geomview
        * exicyclog Exim
        * exigrep Exim
        * exim Exim
        * eximon Exim
        * eximon Exim
        * eximstats Exim
        * exinext Exim
        * exiwhat Exim
        * expand Textutils
        * expect DejaGnu
        * expr Shellutils
        * exterm xopt
     
        * f2c f2c
        * factor bsd44
        * fakemail Emacs
        * false Shellutils
        * fastboot bsd44
        * fax2ps HylaFAX
        * faxalter HylaFAX
        * faxanswer HylaFAX
        * faxcover HylaFAX
        * faxd HylaFAX
        * faxd.recv HylaFAX
        * faxmail HylaFAX
        * faxquit HylaFAX
        * faxrcvd HylaFAX
        * faxrm HylaFAX
        * faxstat HylaFAX
        * fc f2c
        * fdraw xopt
        * ffe g77
        * fgrep grep
        * fid ID Utils
        * file bsd44
        * find Findutils
        * find2perl perl
        * finger Finger
        * fingerd Finger
        * fish bsd44
        * fixfonts Texinfo
        * fixinc.svr4 GCC
        * fixincludes GCC
        * flex flex
        * flex++ flex
        * flythrough geomview
        * fmt bsd44
        * fnid ID Utils
        * fold Textutils
        * font2c Ghostscript
        * fontconvert Fontutils
        * forth Tile Forth
        * forthicon Tile Forth
        * forthtool Tile Forth
        * fortune bsd44
        * fpr bsd44
        * freq Ispell
        * freqtbl Ispell
        * from bsd44
        * fsck bsd44
        * fsplit bsd44
        * fstat bsd44
        * ftp bsd44
        * ftp Inetutils
        * ftpd bsd44
        * ftpd Inetutils
     
        * g++ GCC
        * gas Binutils
        * gawk GAWK
        * gcal gcal
        * gcc GCC
        * gcore bsd44
        * gdb GDB
        * genclass libg++
        * geomstuff geomview
        * gettext gettext
        * getty bsd44
        * gftodvi TeX
        * gftopk TeX
        * gftype TeX
        * ghostview Ghostview
        * gid ID Utils
        * ginsu geomview
        * git GIT
        * gitaction GIT
        * gitcmp GIT
        * gitkeys GIT
        * gitmatch GIT
        * gitmount GIT
        * gitps GIT
        * gitredir GIT
        * gitrgrep GIT
        * gitview GIT
        * gitwipe GIT
        * gn GN
        * gnans Gnans
        * gnanslator Gnans
        * gnats GNATS
        * gnuchess Chess
        * gnuchessc Chess
        * gnuchessn Chess
        * gnuchessr Chess
        * gnuchessx Chess
        * gnuclient gnuserv
        * gnudoit gnuserv
        * gnupdisp Shogi
        * gnuplot gnuplot
        * gnuplot_x11 gnuplot
        * gnuserv gnuserv
        * gnushogi Shogi
        * gnushogir Shogi
        * gnushogix Shogi
        * go GnuGo
        * gpc xopt
        * gpc xreq
        * gperf cperf
        * gperf libg++
        * gprof Binutils
        * graffiti geomview
        * graph Graphics
        * grep grep
        * grodvi Groff
        * groff Groff
        * grops Groff
        * grotty Groff
        * groups Shellutils
        * gs Ghostscript
        * gsbj Ghostscript
        * gsdj Ghostscript
        * gslj Ghostscript
        * gslp Ghostscript
        * gsnd Ghostscript
        * gsrenderfont Fontutils
        * gunzip gzip
        * gvclock geomview
        * gwm xopt
        * gzexe gzip
        * gzip gzip
     
        * h2ph perl
        * h2pl perl
        * hack bsd44
        * hangman bsd44
        * head Textutils
        * hello hello
        * hexdump bsd44
        * hexl Emacs
        * hinge geomview
        * hostname Shellutils
        * hp2xx hp2xx
        * hterm xopt
        * htmlencode phttpd
        * httpd apache
        * httpdecode phttpd
     
        * i18nOlwmV2 xopt
        * i2mif xopt
        * ico xopt
        * ico xreq
        * id Shellutils
        * ident RCS
        * ifconfig bsd44
        * ifnames Autoconf
        * ImageMagick xopt
        * imageto Fontutils
        * iman xopt
        * imgrotate Fontutils
        * indent indent
        * indxbib Groff
        * inetd bsd44
        * inetd Inetutils
        * info Texinfo
        * inimf TeX
        * init bsd44
        * initex TeX
        * inn bsd44
        * install Fileutils
        * iostat bsd44
        * isodiag mkisofs
        * isodump mkisofs
        * ispell Ispell
        * ixterm xopt
        * ixx xopt
     
        * join Textutils
        * jot bsd44
        * jove bsd44
     
        * kdestroy bsd44
        * kdump bsd44
        * kermit bsd44
        * kgames xopt
        * kgmon bsd44
        * kill bsd44
        * kinit bsd44
        * kinput2 xopt
        * klist bsd44
        * kpasswdd bsd44
        * ksrvtgt bsd44
        * kterm xopt
        * ktrace bsd44
     
        * lam bsd44
        * larn bsd44
        * lasergnu gnuplot
        * last bsd44
        * lastcomm bsd44
        * latex TeX
        * lclock xopt
        * ld Binutils
        * leave bsd44
        * less less
        * lesskey less
        * libavcall.a ffcall
        * libbfd.a Binutils
        * libbfd.a GDB
        * libbzr.a Fontutils
        * libc.a C Library
        * libcompat.a bsd44
        * libcurses.a bsd44
        * libcurses.a ncurses
        * libdcurses.a ncurses
        * libedit.a bsd44
        * libF77.a f2c
        * libF77.a g77
        * libg++.a libg++
        * libgdbm.a gdbm
        * libgf.a Fontutils
        * libgmp.a gmp
        * libgnanslib.a Gnans
        * libgnussl.a gnussl
        * libI77.a f2c
        * libI77.a g77
        * libkvm.a bsd44
        * libm.a bsd44
        * libncurses.a ncurses
        * libnihcl.a NIHCL
        * libnihclmi.a NIHCL
        * libnihclvec.a NIHCL
        * libnls.a xreq
        * libobjects.a libobjects
        * liboctave.a Octave
        * liboldX.a xreq
        * libpbm.a Fontutils
        * libPEXt.a xopt
        * libpk.a Fontutils
        * libresolv.a bsd44
        * librpc.a bsd44
        * libsipp.a SIPP
        * libtcl.a DejaGnu
        * libtelnet.a bsd44
        * libterm.a bsd44
        * libtermcap.a Termcap
        * libtfm.a Fontutils
        * libtiff.a tiff
        * libutil.a bsd44
        * libvacall.a ffcall
        * libWc.a xopt
        * libwidgets.a Fontutils
        * libX.a xreq
        * libXau.a xreq
        * libXaw.a xreq
        * libXcp.a xopt
        * libXcu.a xopt
        * libXdmcp.a xreq
        * libXmp.a xopt
        * libXmu.a xreq
        * libXO.a xopt
        * libXop.a xopt
        * libXp.a xopt
        * libXpex.a xopt
        * libXt.a xopt
        * libXt.a xreq
        * libXwchar.a xopt
        * liby.a bsd44
        * libYgl.a Ygl
        * lid ID Utils
        * limn Fontutils
        * listres xopt
        * listres xreq
        * lkbib Groff
        * ln Fileutils
        * locate Findutils
        * lock bsd44
        * logcvt-ip2n phttpd
        * logger bsd44
        * login bsd44
        * logname Shellutils
        * logo ucblogo
        * lookbib Groff
        * lorder bsd44
        * lpr bsd44
        * ls Fileutils
        * lynx lynx
     
        * m4 m4
        * mail bsd44
        * mail-files Sharutils
        * mailq smail
        * mailshar Sharutils
        * make make
        * make-docfile Emacs
        * make-path Emacs
        * makeindex TeX
        * makeinfo Texinfo
        * MakeTeXPK TeX
        * man bsd44
        * man-macros Groff
        * maniview geomview
        * mattrib mtools
        * maze xopt
        * maze xreq
        * mazewar xopt
        * mc mc
        * mcd mtools
        * mcopy mtools
        * mcserv mc
        * md5sum Textutils
        * mdel mtools
        * mdir mtools
        * me-macros Groff
        * medit2gv geomview
        * merge RCS
        * mesg bsd44
        * mf TeX
        * mformat mtools
        * mft TeX
        * mgdiff xopt
        * mh bsd44
        * mille bsd44
        * mkafmmap enscript
        * mkcache GN
        * mkdep bsd44
        * mkdir Fileutils
        * mkfifo Fileutils
        * mkid ID Utils
        * mkisofs mkisofs
        * mklocale bsd44
        * mkmanifest mtools
        * mkmf bsd44
        * mkmodules CVS
        * mknod Fileutils
        * mkstr bsd44
        * mlabel mtools
        * mm-macros Groff
        * mmd mtools
        * monop bsd44
        * more bsd44
        * morse bsd44
        * mount bsd44
        * mountd bsd44
        * movemail Emacs
        * mprof bsd44
        * mrd mtools
        * mread mtools
        * mren mtools
        * ms-macros Groff
        * msgcmp gettext
        * msgfmt gettext
        * msgmerge gettext
        * msgs bsd44
        * msgunfmt gettext
        * mst Smalltalk
        * mt cpio
        * mterm xopt
        * mtree bsd44
        * mtype mtools
        * mule MULE
        * muncher xopt
        * mv Fileutils
        * mvdir Fileutils
        * mwrite mtools
     
        * NDview geomview
        * nethack NetHack
        * netstat bsd44
        * newfs bsd44
        * nfsd bsd44
        * nfsiod bsd44
        * nfsstat bsd44
        * nice Shellutils
        * nl Textutils
        * nlmconv Binutils
        * nm Binutils
        * nohup Shellutils
        * nose geomview
        * notify HylaFAX
        * nroff Groff
        * number bsd44
     
        * objc GCC
        * objcopy Binutils
        * objdump Binutils
        * objective-c GCC
        * obst-boot OBST
        * obst-CC OBST
        * obst-cct OBST
        * obst-cgc OBST
        * obst-cmp OBST
        * obst-cnt OBST
        * obst-cpcnt OBST
        * obst-csz OBST
        * obst-dir OBST
        * obst-dmp OBST
        * obst-gen OBST
        * obst-gsh OBST
        * obst-init OBST
        * obst-scp OBST
        * obst-sil OBST
        * obst-stf OBST
        * oclock xreq
        * octave Octave
        * od Textutils
        * oleo Oleo
        * ora-examples xopt
     
        * p2c p2c
        * pagesize bsd44
        * palette xopt
        * pascal bsd44
        * passwd bsd44
        * paste Textutils
        * patch patch
        * patgen TeX
        * pathalias bsd44
        * pathchk Shellutils
        * pathto smail
        * pax bsd44
        * pbmplus xopt
        * perl perl
        * pfbtops Groff
        * phantasia bsd44
        * phttpd phttpd
        * pic Groff
        * pico pine
        * pig bsd44
        * pine pine
        * ping bsd44
        * pixedit xopt
        * pixmap xopt
        * pktogf TeX
        * pktype TeX
        * plaid xopt
        * plot2fig Graphics
        * plot2plot Graphics
        * plot2ps Graphics
        * plot2tek Graphics
        * pltotf TeX
        * pollrcvd HylaFAX
        * pom bsd44
        * pooltype TeX
        * portmap bsd44
        * ppt bsd44
        * pr Textutils
        * pr-addr GNATS
        * pr-edit GNATS
        * primes bsd44
        * printenv Shellutils
        * printf Shellutils
        * protoize GCC
        * proxygarb Spinner
        * ps bsd44
        * ps2ascii Ghostscript
        * ps2epsi Ghostscript
        * ps2fax HylaFAX
        * psbb Groff
        * pstat bsd44
        * psycho xopt
        * ptester phttpd
        * ptx ptx
        * pubdic+ xopt
        * puzzle xopt
        * puzzle xreq
        * pwd Shellutils
        * pyramid xopt
     
        * query-pr GNATS
        * quiz bsd44
        * quot bsd44
        * quota bsd44
        * quotacheck bsd44
        * quotaon bsd44
     
        * rain bsd44
        * random bsd44
        * ranlib Binutils
        * rbootd bsd44
        * rc rc
        * rcp bsd44
        * rcp Inetutils
        * rcs RCS
        * rcs-to-cvs CVS
        * rcs2log Emacs
        * rcsdiff RCS
        * rcsfreeze RCS
        * rcsmerge RCS
        * rdist bsd44
        * reboot bsd44
        * recode recode
        * recvstats HylaFAX
        * red ed
        * refer Groff
        * remsync Sharutils
        * renice bsd44
        * repquota bsd44
        * restore bsd44
        * rev bsd44
        * rexecd bsd44
        * rexecd Inetutils
        * rlog RCS
        * rlogin bsd44
        * rlogin Inetutils
        * rlogind bsd44
        * rlogind Inetutils
        * rm Fileutils
        * rmail bsd44
        * rmdir Fileutils
        * rmt cpio
        * rmt tar
        * robots bsd44
        * rogue bsd44
        * route bsd44
        * routed bsd44
        * rr xopt
        * rs bsd44
        * rsh bsd44
        * rsh Inetutils
        * rshd bsd44
        * rshd Inetutils
        * rsmtp smail
        * runq smail
        * runtest DejaGnu
        * runtest.exp DejaGnu
        * ruptime bsd44
        * rwho bsd44
        * rwhod bsd44
     
        * s2p perl
        * sail bsd44
        * saoimage SAOimage
        * savecore bsd44
        * sc bsd44
        * sccs bsd44
        * sccs2rcs CVS
        * scdisp xopt
        * screen screen
        * script bsd44
        * scsiformat bsd44
        * sctext xopt
        * sdiff Diffutils
        * sed sed
        * send-pr GNATS
        * sendfax HylaFAX
        * sendmail bsd44
        * sgi2fax HylaFAX
        * sgn GN
        * sh bsd44
        * shar Sharutils
        * shinbun xopt
        * shogi Shogi
        * showfont xopt
        * showmount bsd44
        * shutdown bsd44
        * size Binutils
        * sj3 xopt
        * sjxa xopt
        * slattach bsd44
        * sleep Shellutils
        * sliplogin bsd44
        * smail smail
        * smtpd smail
        * snake bsd44
        * snftobdf xopt
        * soelim Groff
        * sort Textutils
        * sos2obst OBST
        * spider xopt
        * split Textutils
        * startslip bsd44
        * stereo geomview
        * stf OBST
        * strings Binutils
        * strip Binutils
        * stty Shellutils
        * su Shellutils
        * sum Textutils
        * superopt Superopt
        * swapon bsd44
        * sweep geomview
        * sync bsd44
        * sysctl bsd44
        * syslog Inetutils
        * syslogd bsd44
        * syslogd Inetutils
        * systat bsd44
     
        * tabs Termutils
        * tac Textutils
        * tackdown geomview
        * tail Textutils
        * taintperl perl
        * talk bsd44
        * talk Inetutils
        * talkd bsd44
        * talkd Inetutils
        * tangle TeX
        * tar tar
        * tbl Groff
        * tcal gcal
        * tcl DejaGnu
        * tclsh DejaGnu
        * tcopy bsd44
        * tcp Emacs
        * tee Shellutils
        * tek2plot Graphics
        * telnet bsd44
        * telnet Inetutils
        * telnetd bsd44
        * telnetd Inetutils
        * test Shellutils
        * test-g++ DejaGnu
        * test-tool DejaGnu
        * tetris bsd44
        * tex TeX
        * tex3patch Texinfo
        * texi2dvi Texinfo
        * texindex Texinfo
        * texspell TeX
        * textfmt HylaFAX
        * tfmtodit Groff
        * tftopl TeX
        * tftp bsd44
        * tftp Inetutils
        * tftpd bsd44
        * tftpd Inetutils
        * tgrind TeX
        * time time
        * timed bsd44
        * timer Emacs
        * timex xopt
        * tip bsd44
        * tkpostage xopt
        * tn3270 bsd44
        * togeomview geomview
        * touch Fileutils
        * tput Termutils
        * tr Textutils
        * traceroute bsd44
        * transcript HylaFAX
        * transfig xopt
        * transformer geomview
        * trek bsd44
        * trigrp geomview
        * trn3 bsd44
        * troff Groff
        * trpt bsd44
        * trsp bsd44
        * true Shellutils
        * tset bsd44
        * tsort bsd44
        * tty Shellutils
        * ttygnans Gnans
        * tunefs bsd44
        * tupdate gettext
        * tvtwm xopt
        * twm xreq
     
        * ul bsd44
        * ulpc Spinner
        * umount bsd44
        * uname Shellutils
        * uncompress gzip
        * unexpand Textutils
        * unifdef bsd44
        * unify wdiff
        * uniq Textutils
        * unprotoize GCC
        * unshar Sharutils
        * unvis bsd44
        * update bsd44
        * updatedb Findutils
        * users Shellutils
        * uuchk UUCP
        * uucico UUCP
        * uuconv UUCP
        * uucp UUCP
        * uucpd bsd44
        * uucpd Inetutils
        * uudecode Sharutils
        * uudir UUCP
        * uuencode Sharutils
        * uulog UUCP
        * uuname UUCP
        * uupath smail
        * uupick UUCP
        * uurate UUCP
        * uusched UUCP
        * uustat UUCP
        * uuto UUCP
        * uux UUCP
        * uuxqt UUCP
     
        * v Fileutils
        * vacation bsd44
        * vandal xopt
        * vcdiff Emacs
        * vdir Fileutils
        * vftovp TeX
        * vgrind bsd44
        * vi nvi
        * viewres xopt
        * viewres xreq
        * vine xopt
        * vipw bsd44
        * virmf TeX
        * virtex TeX
        * vis bsd44
        * vmstat bsd44
        * vptovf TeX
     
        * w bsd44
        * waisgn GN
        * wakeup Emacs
        * wall bsd44
        * wargames bsd44
        * wc Textutils
        * wdiff wdiff
        * weave TeX
        * what bsd44
        * whatis bsd44
        * whereis bsd44
        * who Shellutils
        * whoami Shellutils
        * whois bsd44
        * window bsd44
        * winterp xopt
        * wish DejaGnu
        * wn WN
        * wndex WN
        * worm bsd44
        * worms bsd44
        * write bsd44
        * wump bsd44
     
        * x11perf xreq
        * x2p perl
        * xalarm xopt
        * xancur xopt
        * xargs Findutils
        * xauth xreq
        * xbfe Fontutils
        * xbiff xopt
        * xbiff xreq
        * xboard xboard
        * xboing xopt
        * xbuffy3 xopt
        * xcalc xopt
        * xcalc xreq
        * xcalendar xopt
        * xcdplayer xopt
        * xcell xopt
        * xclipboard xreq
        * xclock xreq
        * xcmdmenu xopt
        * xcms xopt
        * xcmsdb xreq
        * xcmstest xreq
        * xco xopt
        * xcolorize xopt
        * xcolors xopt
        * xconsole xreq
        * xcrtca xopt
        * xdaliclock xopt
        * xdiary xopt
        * xditview Groff
        * xditview xopt
        * xditview xreq
        * xdm xreq
        * xdpyinfo xreq
        * xdu xopt
        * xdvi TeX
        * xdvi xopt
        * xdvorak xopt
        * xearth xopt
        * xed xopt
        * xedit xopt
        * xedit xreq
        * xev xopt
        * xev xreq
        * xexit xopt
        * xeyes xopt
        * xeyes xreq
        * xfd xreq
        * xfed xopt
        * xfedor xopt
        * xfeoak xopt
        * xferstats HylaFAX
        * xfig xopt
        * xfontsel xopt
        * xfontsel xreq
        * xforecast xopt
        * xgas xopt
        * xgas xreq
        * xgc xopt
        * xgc xreq
        * xgettext gettext
        * xhearts xopt
        * xhelp xopt
        * xhost xreq
        * xinit xreq
        * xkeycaps xopt
        * xkill xreq
        * xlax xopt
        * xlayout xopt
        * xlbiff xopt
        * xless xopt
        * xload xopt
        * xload xreq
        * xlogin xopt
        * xlogo xreq
        * xlsatoms xreq
        * xlsclients xreq
        * xlsfonts xreq
        * xmag xreq
        * xmail xopt
        * xmailbox xopt
        * xmailwatcher xopt
        * xman xopt
        * xman xreq
        * xmandel xopt
        * xmessage xopt
        * xmeter xopt
        * xmh xreq
        * xmh-icons xopt
        * xmh.editor xopt
        * xmodmap xreq
        * xmon xopt
        * xmove xopt
        * xmphone xopt
        * xpd xopt
        * xphoon xopt
        * xpipeman xopt
        * xplot Graphics
        * xpostit xopt
        * xpr xopt
        * xpr xreq
        * xprompt xopt
        * xproof xopt
        * xprop xreq
        * xpserv xopt
        * xrdb xreq
        * xrefresh xreq
        * xrsh xopt
        * xrubik xopt
        * xrunclient xopt
        * xscope xopt
        * xscreensaver xopt
        * xsession xopt
        * xset xreq
        * xsetroot xreq
        * xshogi xshogi
        * xstdcmap xreq
        * xstr bsd44
        * xtalk xopt
        * xterm xreq
        * xterm_color xopt
        * xtetris xopt
        * xTeXcad.13 xopt
        * xtiff xopt
        * xtokid ID Utils
        * xtree xopt
        * xtv xopt
        * xwd xreq
        * xwininfo xreq
        * xwud xreq
     
        * yacc bsd44
        * yes Shellutils
        * youbin xopt
        * yow Emacs
     
        * zcat gzip
        * zcmp gzip
        * zdiff gzip
        * zforce gzip
        * zgrep gzip
        * zmore gzip
        * znew gzip
     
        * [ Shellutils

 


 

CD-ROMs
*******

We have two series of CD-ROMs: the Source Code CD-ROM, and the Compiler
Tools Binaries CD-ROM.

Our CDs are in ISO 9660 format & can be mounted as a read-only file system on
most computers.  If your driver supports it, you can mount each CD with "Rock
Ridge" extensions & it will look like a regular Unix file system, rather than
one full of truncated & otherwise mangled names that fit vanilla ISO 9660.

You can build most of the software without copying the sources off the CD.
You only need enough disk space for object files and intermediate build
targets.

 

Pricing of the GNU CD-ROMs
--------------------------

If a business or organization is ultimately paying, the current GNU Source
CD set costs $240.  The set costs $60 if you, an individual, are paying out
of your own pocket.  The current Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM costs $220
for a business or organization, and $55 for an individual.

 

What Do the Different Prices Mean?
..................................

The software on our disks is free; anyone can copy it and anyone can run it.
What we charge for is the physical disk and the service of distribution.

We charge two different prices depending on who is buying.  When a company
or other organization buys the Source CD-ROMs, we charge $240.  When an
individual buys the same CD-ROMs, we charge just $60.  This distinction is
not a matter of who is allowed to use the software.  In either case, once
you have a copy, you can distribute as many copies as you wish and there's
no restriction on who can have or run them.  The price distinction is
entirely a matter of what kind of entity pays for the CDs.

You, the reader, are certainly an individual, not a company.  If you are
buying a disk "in person", then you are probably doing so as an individual.
But if you expect to be reimbursed by your employer, then the disk is really
for the company; so please pay the company price and get reimbursed for it.
We won't try to check up on you--we use the honor system--so please cooperate.

Buying CDs at the company price is very helpful for GNU; just
150 Source CDs at that price support an FSF programmer or tech writer for a
year.

 

Why Is There an Individual Price?
.................................

In the past, our distribution tapes were ordered mainly by companies.  The CD
at the price of $240 provides them with all of our software for a much lower
price than they would previously have paid for six different tapes.  To lower
the price more would cut into the FSF's funds very badly and decrease the
software development we can do.

However, for individuals, $240 is too high a price; hardly anyone could
afford that.  So we decided to make CDs available to individuals at the lower
price of $60.

 

Is There a Maximum Price?
.........................

Our stated prices are minimum prices.  Feel free to pay a higher price if you
wish to support GNU development more.  The sky's the limit; we will accept as
high a price as you can offer.  Or simply give a donation (tax-deductible in
the U.S.) to the Free Software Foundation, a tax-exempt public charity.

 

January 1997 Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM
-------------------------------------------

In January 1997 we released the fourth edition of our CD-ROM that has
binaries and complete sources for GNU compiler tools for some systems which
lack a compiler.  This enables the people who use these systems to compile
GNU and other free software without having to buy a proprietary compiler.
You can also use these GNU tools to compile your own C/C++/Objective-C
programs.  Older editions of this CD are available while supplies last at a
reduced price; *Note Free Software Foundation Order Form::.

We hope to have more systems on each update of this CD.  If you can help
build binaries for new systems (especially those that don't come with a C
compiler), or have one to suggest, please contact us at the addresses on page
1.

These packages:

        * DJGPP
        * GCC/G++/Objective-C
        * GNU C Library
        * GDB
        * Binutils
        * Bison
        * Emacs (MS-DOS only)
        * Flex
        * Make
        * libg++

On these platforms:

        * `i386-msdos'
        * `hppa1.1-hp-hpux9'
        * `hppa1.1-hp-hpux10'
        * `powerpc-ibm-aix4.2'
        * `sparc-sun-solaris2.4'
        * `sparc-sun-solaris2.5'
        * `sparc-sun-sunos4.1'

 

Source Code CD-ROMs
-------------------

We have several versions of our Source Code CD-ROMs available, including:

   * July 1997 Source Code CD-ROMs, the newest release, has programs,
     bug fixes, & improvements.  See below.

   * January 1997 Source Code CD-ROMs.

   * July 1996 Source Code CD-ROMss.

   * December 1995 Source Code CD-ROMs.

   * June 1995 Source Code CD-ROM.

   * May 1994 Source Code CD-ROM.

   * November 1993 Source Code CD-ROM.

   * May 1993 Source Code CD-ROM.

   * October 1992 Source Code CD-ROM.

The older Source CDs are available while supplies last at a reduced price
(please note that the December 1994 Source CD is permanently out of stock).
All the Source CDs have Texinfo source for the GNU manuals listed in *Note
Documentation::.

Much of X11 is *not* on the older Source CDs which are just one CD
instead of two.

There are no precompiled programs on these Source CDs.  You will need a C
compiler (programs which need some other interpreter or compiler normally
provide the C source for a bootstrapping program).  We ship C compiler
binaries for some systems on the *Note Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM::.

 

July 1997 Source Code CD-ROMs
.............................

The 10th edition of our Source Code CD is available now with two CD-ROM disks.
It has programs, bug fixes, & improvements not on the older Source CDs.  It
has these packages, & some manuals that are not part of packages.  The
version number of each package listed might be higher on the 10th edition CD
due to new releases being made since this list was generated.


        * abuse 2.0
        * acct 6.3
        * acm 4.8
        * aegis 2.3
        * apache 1.2.4
        * Autoconf 2.12
        * Automake 1.2
        * BASH 2.01
        * bc 1.04
        * Binutils 2.8.1
        * Bison 1.25
        * C Library 2.0.5
        * Calc 2.02f
        * cfengine 1.4.1
        * Chess 4.0.pl77
        * CLISP 1997.08.07
        * Common Lisp 2.2.2
        * cook 1.10
        * cperf 2.1a
        * cpio 2.4.2
        * CVS 1.9
        * cxref 1.4
        * ddd 2.1.1
        * DejaGnu 1.3
        * Diffutils 2.7
        * dld 3.3
        * doschk 1.1
        * ed 0.2
        * Elib 1.0
        * elisp archive 1997.08.19
        * Emacs 18.59
        * Emacs 19.34
        * Emacs 20.1
        * enscript 1.5.0
        * es 0.84
        * Exim 1.70
        * f2c 1997.07.13
        * ffcall 1.1
        * Fileutils 3.16
        * Findutils 4.1
        * Finger 1.37
        * flex 2.5.4
        * Fontutils 0.6
        * g77 0.5.19.1
        * gawk 3.0.3
        * gcal 2.10
        * GCC/G++/Objective-C 2.7.2.3
        * GDB 4.16
        * gdbm 1.7.3
        * Generic NQS 3.50.2
        * geomview 1.6.1
        * gettext 0.10
        * gforth 0.3.0
        * Ghostscript 3.33
        * Ghostview 1.5
        * Ghostview for Windows 2.1
        * GIT 4.3.16
        * gmp 2.0.2
        * GN 2.24
        * Gnans 1.5.1
        * gnat 3.09
        * GNATS 3.2
        * GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual 1.03
        * GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual 2.4.2
        * GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual 2.4.jp2.0
        * GnuGo 1.2
        * gnuplot 3.5
        * gnuserv 2.1alpha
        * gnussl 0.2.1
        * gpc 2.0
        * grep 2.0
        * Groff 1.11
        * guavac 0.3.1
        * guile 1.2
        * gzip 1.2.4
        * hello 1.3
        * hp2xx 3.1.4
        * HylaFAX 4.0pl1
        * Hyperbole 4.01
        * ID Utils 3.2
        * ilisp 5.8.a04
        * indent 1.9.1
        * Inetutils 1.3a
        * Ispell 3.1.20
        * jargon 4.0.0
        * karma 1.6
        * less 332
        * LessTif 0.80
        * libg++ 2.7.2
        * libobjects 0.1.19
        * libtool 1.0
        * lynx 2.7.1
        * m4 1.4
        * make 3.75
        * MandelSpawn 0.07
        * maxima 5.2
        * mc 4.0
        * MCSim 4.1
        * mesa 2.1
        * <Meta-HTML> 5.04
        * miscfiles 1.1
        * mkisofs 1.11
        * mm 1.07
        * mtools 3.8
        * MULE 2.3
        * mutt 0.81
        * NetHack 3.2.2
        * NIHCL 3.1.4
        * nvi 1.79
        * Oaklisp 930720
        * OBST 3.4.3
        * Octave 2.0.9
        * Oleo 1.6
        * p2c 1.20
        * patch 2.5
        * pcl-gcl 2.2
        * perl 4.036
        * perl 5.003
        * phttpd 0.99.76
        * pips 1.01
        * plotutils 1.1
        * prcs 1.2
        * Programming in Emacs Lisp an Introduction 1.04
        * ptx 0.4
        * rc 1.4
        * RCS 5.7
        * readline 2.1
        * recode 3.4
        * regex 0.12
        * Roxen 1.1
        * rsync 1.6.3
        * rx 1.5
        * SAOimage 1.20
        * screen 3.7.4
        * sed 2.05
        * Sharutils 4.2
        * Shellutils 1.16
        * Shogi 1.2p03
        * SIPP 3.1
        * smail 3.2
        * Smalltalk 1.1.5
        * sneps 2.3.1
        * spell 1.0
        * stow 1.3.2
        * Superopt 2.5
        * swarm 1.0.2
        * tar 1.12
        * Termcap 1.3
        * Termutils 2.0
        * TeX 3.1415
        * Texinfo 3.11
        * Textutils 1.22
        * tiff 3.4
        * Tile Forth 2.1
        * time 1.7
        * ucblogo 4.1
        * units 1.53
        * UUCP 1.06.1
        * vera 1.0
        * vrweb 1.5
        * W3 2.2.26
        * wdiff 0.5
        * wget 1.4.5
        * windows32api 0.1.2
        * WN 1.18.1
        * X11R6.3
        * xboard 3.6.2
        * xgrabsc 2.41
        * xinfo 1.01.01
        * xmcd 2.2
        * xshogi 1.2p03
        * Ygl 3.1
        * zlibc 0.9e

 

January 1997 Source Code CD-ROMs
................................

We still have copies of the 9th edition of our Source CD with two CD-ROM
disks.  It has these packages, & some manuals that are not part of packages:


        * acm 4.7
        * apache 1.1.1
        * Autoconf 2.12
        * Automake 1.0
        * BASH 2.0
        * bc 1.03
        * Binutils 2.7
        * Bison 1.25
        * C Library 2.0
        * Calc 2.02f
        * cfengine 1.3.16
        * Chess 4.0.pl77
        * CLISP 1996.05.30
        * Common Lisp 2.2.1
        * cperf 2.1a
        * cpio 2.4.2
        * CVS 1.9
        * ddd 2.0
        * DejaGnu 1.3
        * Diffutils 2.7
        * dld 3.3
        * doschk 1.1
        * ed 0.2
        * Elib 1.0
        * elisp archive
        * Emacs 18.59
        * Emacs 19.34
        * enscript 1.4.0
        * es 0.84
        * Exim 1.59
        * f2c 1996.12.09
        * ffcall 1.1
        * Fileutils 3.16
        * Findutils 4.1
        * Finger 1.37
        * flex 2.5.4
        * Fontutils 0.6
        * g77 0.5.19
        * gawk 3.0.1
        * gcal 2.10
        * GCC/G++/Objective-C 2.7.2.2
        * GDB 4.16
        * gdbm 1.7.3
        * Generic NQS 3.50.2
        * geomview 1.6.1
        * gettext 0.10
        * gforth 0.2.1
        * Ghostscript 3.33
        * Ghostview 1.5
        * Ghostview for Windows 2.1
        * GIT 4.3.16
        * gmp 2.0.2
        * GN 2.24
        * Gnans 1.5.1
        * gnat 3.07
        * GNATS 3.2
        * GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual 1.03
        * GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual 2.4.2
        * GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual 2.4.jp2.0
        * GnuGo 1.2
        * gnuplot 3.5
        * gnuserv 2.1alpha
        * gnussl 0.2.1
        * gpc 2.0
        * Graphics 0.17
        * grep 2.0
        * Groff 1.10
        * guile 1.0
        * gzip 1.2.4
        * hello 1.3
        * hp2xx 3.1.4
        * HylaFAX 4.0pl1
        * Hyperbole 4.01
        * ID Utils 3.2
        * ilisp 5.8.a04
        * indent 1.9.1
        * Inetutils 1.2j
        * Ispell 3.1.20
        * jargon 4.0.0
        * karma 1.6
        * less 321
        * libg++ 2.7.2
        * libobjects 0.1.19
        * lynx 2.6
        * m4 1.4
        * make 3.75
        * MandelSpawn 0.07
        * maxima 5.2
        * mc 3.2.1
        * mesa 2.1
        * <Meta-HTML> 5.01
        * miscfiles 1.0
        * mkisofs 1.05GNU
        * mm 1.07
        * mtools 3.1
        * MULE 2.3
        * mutt 0.57
        * ncurses 1.9.9e
        * NetHack 3.2.2
        * NIHCL 3.1.4
        * nvi 1.79
        * Oaklisp 930720
        * OBST 3.4.3
        * Octave 2.0.2
        * Oleo 1.6
        * p2c 1.20
        * patch 2.1
        * pcl-gcl 2.1
        * perl 4.036
        * perl 5.003
        * phttpd 0.99.72.1
        * pine 3.91
        * pips 1.01
        * Programming in Emacs Lisp an Introduction 1.04
        * ptx 0.4
        * rc 1.4
        * RCS 5.7
        * readline 2.0
        * recode 3.4
        * regex 0.12
        * Roxen 1.1
        * rx 1.5
        * SAOimage 1.19
s        * scheme 7.4
        * screen 3.7.2
        * sed 2.05
        * Sharutils 4.2
        * Shellutils 1.16
        * Shogi 1.2p03
        * SIPP 3.1
        * smail 3.2
        * Smalltalk 1.1.5
        * sneps 2.3.1
        * stow 1.3.2
        * Superopt 2.5
        * tar 1.11.8
        * Termcap 1.3
        * Termutils 2.0
        * TeX 3.1415
        * Texinfo 3.9
        * Textutils 1.22
        * tiff 3.4
        * Tile Forth 2.1
        * time 1.7
        * ucblogo 3.6
        * units 1.53
        * UUCP 1.06.1
        * vrweb 1.3
        * W3 2.2.26
        * wdiff 0.5
        * wget 1.4.2b
        * windows32api 0.1.2
        * WN 1.17.1
        * X11R6.3
        * xboard 3.5.0
        * xgrabsc 2.41
        * xinfo 1.01.01
        * xshogi 1.2p03
        * Ygl 3.1

 

CD-ROM Subscription Service
***************************

Our subscription service enables you to stay current with the latest GNU
developments.  For a one-time cost equivalent to three Source CD-ROMs (plus
shipping in some cases), we will ship you four new versions of the *Note
Source Code CD-ROMs::.  The CD-ROMs are sent as they are issued (currently
twice a year, but we hope to make it more frequent).  We do not yet know if
we will be offering subscriptions to the Compiler Tools Binaries CD.

A subscription is an easy way to keep up with the regular bug fixes to the X
Window System.  Each edition of the *Note Source Code CD-ROMs::, has updated
sources for the X Window System.

Please note: In two cases, you must pay 4 times the normal shipping required
for a single order when you pay for each subscription.  If you're in Alaska,
Hawaii, or Puerto Rico you must add $20.00 for shipping for each
subscription.  If you're outside of the U.S., Canada, and Puerto Rico, you
must add $80.00 for each subscription.  See "CD-ROMs" and "Tax and Shipping
Costs" on the *note Free Software Foundation Order Form::.

 

FSF T-shirt
***********

The front of our T-shirt has the GNU Emacs Lisp code `(USE 'GNU)' with "`()'"
being the dancing parentheses from the cover of our `GNU Emacs Lisp Reference
Manual' (drawn by Berkeley, CA artist Etienne Suvasa).  The shirt's back has
the Preamble to the GNU General Public License.

These shirts come in black, natural (off-white), burgundy, and blue-green.
When you order, please give 3 choices.  Black is printed in white and the
other colors are printed in black.  All shirts are thick 100% cotton; black
and burgundy come in sizes M, L, XL, and XXL and the others in sizes L and XL
(they run small so you may want a larger size than usual).

GNU T-shirts often create spontaneous friendships at conferences & on
university campuses.  They also make great gifts for friends & family,
including children!

 

Free Software Foundation Order Form
***********************************

All items are distributed with permission to copy and to redistribute.
Texinfo source for each manual and source for each reference card is on the
appropriate CD-ROM; the prices for these media do not include printed
documentation.
All items are provided ``as is'', with no warranty of any kind.
Please allow three weeks for delivery
(though it won't usually take that long).


     PRICE AND CONTENTS MAY CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE AFTER January 31, 1998.


A possibly more current version of this order form can be found on the
World Wide Web at `http://www.gnu.ai.mit.edu/order/order.html' or
can be found in file `/pub/gnu/GNUinfo/ORDERS' on a GNU FTP host
(*note How to Get GNU Software::.).



FSF Deluxe Distribution
-----------------------
(Please contact us with any questions.  *Note Deluxe Distribution::,
for machine, operating system, and media types.)


____ @ $5000 = $ ______   The Deluxe Distribution, with manuals, etc.

Machine: _____________________________________________________________________

Operating system: ____________________________________________________________

Media type: __________________________________________________________________

(Optional) Version of X Window System to link with: __________________________



CD-ROMs, in ISO 9660 format (*note CD-ROMs::.):
----------------------------------------------


GNU Source Code CD-ROMs, Version 10 with X11R6.3 (*note July 1997 Source Code CD-ROMs::.):

____ @ $240  = $ ______   for corporations and other organizations.

____ @ $ 60  = $ ______   for individuals.


Subscriptions, next 4 updates of the Source Code CD-ROM, in ISO 9660 format
(*note CD-ROM Subscription Service::.):

____ @ $720  = $ ______   for corporations and other organizations.

____ @ $180  = $ ______   for individuals.


GNU Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM, Version 4, January 1997 Edition
(*note Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM::.):

____ @ $220  = $ ______   for corporations and other organizations.

____ @  $55  = $ ______   for individuals.



Manuals
-------

These manuals (*note Documentation::.).  The latest version of each manual
will be shipped.  Please contact us if you want a specific version.

____ @ $ 30  = $ ______   GNU Emacs manual, with a reference card.

____ @ $ 50  = $ ______   GNU Emacs Lisp Reference manual, in two volumes.

____ @ $ 60  = $ ______   GNU Emacs Lisp Reference, Japanese Edition.

____ @ $ 50  = $ ______   Using and Porting GNU CC.

____ @ $ 50  = $ ______   GNU C Library Reference Manual.

____ @ $ 50  = $ ______   GNU Emacs Calc manual, with a reference card.

____ @ $ 20  = $ ______   Programming in Emacs Lisp: An Introduction.

____ @ $ 20  = $ ______   Debugging with GDB, with a reference card.

____ @ $ 25  = $ ______   GNU Awk User's Guide.

____ @ $ 20  = $ ______   Make manual.

____ @ $ 20  = $ ______   Bison manual, with a reference card.

____ @ $ 20  = $ ______   Flex manual, with a reference card.

____ @ $ 25  = $ ______   Texinfo manual.

____ @ $ 15  = $ ______   Termcap manual, 3rd Edition Revised.



Reference Cards
---------------

The following reference cards, in packets of ten.  For single copies please
contact us.

____ @ $ 10  = $ ______   GNU Emacs version 20 reference cards.

____ @ $ 10  = $ ______   GNU Emacs Calc reference cards.

____ @ $ 10  = $ ______   GDB reference cards.

____ @ $ 10  = $ ______   Bison reference cards.

____ @ $ 10  = $ ______   Flex reference cards.



T-shirts
--------

GNU/FSF T-shirts (*note FSF T-shirt::.), thick 100% cotton, available in
black or natural (off-white) in sizes M, L, XL, and XXL,
and in burgundy or blue-green in sizes L and XL.
Please list 1st, 2nd, and 3rd choice of color.

____ @ $ 15  = $ ______   Size _____

                          Color choice: 1st _______ 2nd _______ 3rd _______

____ @ $ 15  = $ ______   Size _____

                          Color choice: 1st _______ 2nd _______ 3rd _______

____ @ $ 15  = $ ______   Size _____

                          Color choice: 1st _______ 2nd _______ 3rd _______

____ @ $ 15  = $ ______   Size _____

                          Color choice: 1st _______ 2nd _______ 3rd _______


Older Items
-----------

Older items are only available while supplies last.

____ @ $ 40  = $ ______   Using and Porting GCC, 8.5 x 11 inches, with
                           plastic binding (same text as current edition)

Please fill in the number of each older CD-ROM you order:

     GNU Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROMs:

Version 1 (December '93)  ______    Version 2 (December '94) ______

Version 3 (December '95)  ______

     GNU Source Code CD-ROMs: (Version 5 (Dec. '94) is not available.)

Version 1 (October '92)   ______    Version 2 (May '93) ______

Version 3 (November '93 - last edition with X11R5)  ______

Version 4 (May '94 - first edition with X11R6)  ______

Version 6 (June '95)  ______        Version 7 (Dec. '95)  ______

Version 8 (July '96)  ______        Version 9 (Jan. '97)  ______

Please put the total count and cost of the above older CD-ROMs here:

____ @ $ 80  = $ ______   for corporations and other organizations.

____ @ $ 20  = $ ______   for individuals.

                 ======

      Subtotal $ ______



Tax and Shipping Costs
----------------------

             + $ ______   For addresses in Massachusetts: add 5% sales tax
                          or give tax exempt number.  There is no sales tax
                          on T-shirts.
             + $ ______   Shipping fee for addresses in Alaska, Hawaii, or
                          Puerto Rico:
                            $  5.00 base charge;
                          + $  5.00 for *each* Emacs Calc or Emacs Lisp
                            Reference manual ($ 5.00 * #ofMans);
                          + $ 20.00 for *each* CD-ROM subscription
                                             ($20.00 * #ofSubs);
                          + $  1.00 for *each* item other than the above
                            (shipping for all other items =
                                                     $ 1.00 * #ofOtherItems).
             + $ ______   Shipping fee for most Foreign Destinations: (Please
                          do *not* use this formula for addresses in China,
                          Guam, Indonesia, Israel, Malaysia, New Zealand,
                          Philippines, and Thailand.  Please contact us for
                          an exact shipping quote.)
                            $ 20.00 base charge for orders to other
                              addresses outside of U.S., Canada, & Puerto Rico:
                          + $ 10.00 for each item ordered, ($ 10.00 * #ofItems)
                          + $ 80.00 for each CD-ROM subscription
                              ($ 80.00 * #ofSubs) (don't count as an item).
                          In Europe, ordering via GNU Distribution Europe--
                          Belgium may reduce these costs
                          (*note New European Distributor::.).
             + $ ______   Optional (tax-deductible in the U.S.) donation.
                          We suggest 5% if paying by credit card.

         TOTAL $ ______   We pay for shipping via UPS ground transportation in
                          the contiguous 48 states and Canada.  For very
                          large orders, ask about actual shipping costs for
                          that order.

Note:  The shipping fee for foreign destinations covers express courier
       shipping.  If you would like shipping via air mail, please contact
       our distribution office for a quote on your order.

Shipping Information
--------------------

Name: ________________________________________________________________________

Mail Stop/Dept. Name: ________________________________________________________

Organization: ________________________________________________________________

Street Address: ______________________________________________________________

City, State/Province: ________________________________________________________

Zip Code/Postal Code, Country: _______________________________________________

Telephone number in case of a problem with your order.
For international orders, please include a fax number. _______________________

E-mail Address: ______________________________________________________________


------------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                                                                            |
|  Orders filled only upon receipt of check, money order, or credit card     |
|  order in U.S. dollars.  Unpaid orders will be returned to the sender.     |
|  We do not have the staff to handle the billing of unpaid orders.  Please  |
|  help keep our lives simple by including your payment with your order.     |
|                                                                            |
------------------------------------------------------------------------------



For orders from outside the U.S.:
---------------------------------

You are responsible for paying all duties, tariffs, and taxes.  If you
refuse to pay the charges, the shipper will return or abandon the order.

In Europe, you may find it cheaper and more convenient to use our European
Distributor.  *Note New European Distributor::.


 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 |                                                                         |
 |      Please make checks payable to the ``Free Software Foundation''.    |
 |                                                                         |
 |           Checks must be in U.S. dollars, drawn on a U.S. bank.         |
 |                                                                         |
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------



For Credit Card Orders:
-----------------------

The Free Software Foundation takes these credit cards: Carte Blanche,
Diner's Club, Discover, JCB, MasterCard, Visa, or American Express.
Please note that we are charged about 5% of an order's total amount in
credit card processing fees.  Please consider paying by check instead,
or adding on a 5% donation to make up the difference.  To place a credit
card order, please give us this information:


Card type: ___________________________________________________________________

Account Number: ______________________________________________________________

Expiration Date: _____________________________________________________________

Cardholder's Name: ___________________________________________________________

Cardholder's Signature: ______________________________________________________



------------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                                                                            |
|     If you wish to pay by wire transfer or you are a reseller, please      |
|     contact us or write us for details.                                    |
|                                                                            |
------------------------------------------------------------------------------



A possibly more current version of this order form can be found on the
World Wide Web at `http://www.gnu.ai.mit.edu/order/order.html' or
can be found in file `/pub/gnu/GNUinfo/ORDERS' on a GNU FTP host
(*note How to Get GNU Software::.).



                Please mail orders to:  Free Software Foundation
                                        59 Temple Place - Suite 330
                                        Boston, MA   02111
PRICES AND CONTENTS MAY CHANGE          +1-617-542-5942
WITHOUT NOTICE AFTER January 31, 1998   Fax (including Japan): +1-617-542-2652

Version: July 1997 ASCII etc/ORDERS

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
