The amiga-specific portion of the OpenBSD 2.0 release is found in the
"amiga" subdirectory of the distribution.  That subdirectory is layed
out as follows:

.../2.0/amiga/
		INSTALL.amiga	This file.

		kernels/	A generic OpenBSD kernel is found here.

		miniroots/	amiga installation and upgrade
				file system images; see below.

		tars/		amiga binary distribution sets;
				see below.

		tars.split/	amiga binary distribution sets
				splitted in 80k parts.

		utils/		Miscellaneous amiga
				installation utilities; see
				installation section, below.

There are two amiga file system images to be found in the "amiga/miniroots"
subdirectory of the OpenBSD 2.0 distribution.  One of them is a upgrade
image and one is an installation image. They are described in more
detail below.  There are gzipped versions of each available, for easier
downloading.  (The gzipped version have the ".gz" extension added to
their names.)

Installation file system:

	This file contains a BSD root file system setup to help
	you install the rest of OpenBSD.  This includes formatting
	and mounting your root and /usr partitions and getting
	ready to extract (and possibly first fetching) the distribution
	sets.  There is enough on this file system to allow you to
	make a slip or ppp connection, configure an ethernet, mount an
	NFS file system or ftp.  You can also load distribution sets from
	a SCSI tape or from one of your existing AmigaDOS partitions.

	This file is named "inst-20.fs".


Upgrade file system:

	This file contains a BSD root file system setup to help
	you upgrade a previous version of OpenBSD.  This includes
	converting existing partitions and mounting your root and
	/usr partitions and getting ready to extract (and possibly
	first fetching) the distribution sets.  There is enough on
	this file system to allow you to make a slip or ppp connection,
	configure an ethernet, mount an NFS file system or ftp.
	You can also load distribution sets from a SCSI tape, from
	one of your existing AmigaDOS partitions, or from an existing
	OpenBSD partition.

	This file is named "upgr-20.fs".

The OpenBSD/amiga binary distribution sets contain the binaries which
comprise the OpenBSD 2.0 release for the amiga.  There are seven binary
distribution sets.  The binary distribution sets can be found in
subdirectories of the "amiga/tars" subdirectory of the OpenBSD 2.0
distribution tree, and are as follows (all have ".tar.gz" appended to
the name given in the table below):

	base20	The OpenBSD/amiga 2.0 base binary distribution.  You
		MUST install this distribution set.  It contains the
		base OpenBSD utilities that are necessary for the
		system to run and be minimally functional.  It
		includes shared library support, and excludes
		everything described below.
		[ 11M gzipped, 35M uncompressed ]

	comp20	The OpenBSD/amiga Compiler tools.  All of the tools
		relating to C, C++, and FORTRAN (yes, there are two!).
		This set includes the system include files
		(/usr/include), the linker, the compiler tool chain,
		and the various system libraries (except the shared
		libraries, which are included as part of the base
		set).  This set also includes the manual pages for all
		of the utilities it contains, as well as the system
		call and library manual pages.
		[ 7M gzipped, 23M uncompressed ]

	etc20	This distribution set contains the system
		configuration files that reside in /etc and in several
		other places.  This set MUST be installed if you are
		installing the system from scratch, but should NOT be
		used if you are upgrading.  (If you are upgrading,
		it's recommended that you get a copy of this set and
		CAREFULLY upgrade your configuration files by hand.)
		[ 70K gzipped, 380K uncompressed ]

	games20	This set includes the games and their manual pages.
		[ 3M gzipped, 7M uncompressed ]

	man20	This set includes all of the manual pages for the
		binaries and other software contained in the base set.
		Note that it does not include any of the manual pages
		that are included in the other sets.
		[ 2M gzipped, 8M uncompressed ]

	misc20	This set includes the system dictionaries (which are
		rather large), the typesettable document set, and
		man pages for other architectures which happen to be
		installed from the source tree by default.
		[ 2M gzipped, 6M uncompressed ]

	text20	This set includes OpenBSD's text processing tools,
		including groff, all related programs, and their
		manual pages.
		[ 1M gzipped, 4M uncompressed ]

The amiga binary distribution sets are distributed in the same form as
the source distribution sets; catted together, the members of a set
form a gzipped tar file.  Each amiga binary distribution set also has
its own "CKSUMS" file, just as the source distribution sets do.

The instructions given for extracting the source sets work equally
well for the binary sets, but it is worth noting that if you use that
method, the files are extracted "below" the current directory.  That
is, if you want to extract the binaries "into" your system, i.e.
replace the system binaries with them, you have to run the "tar xvfp"
from /.
